Roth, Book 4 of the Faithful and the Fallen, by John Gwynn, read by Damien Lynch.
Roth and vengeance poured, John Milton, Paradise Lost.
Chapter 1 There it is.
The year 1144 of the Age of Exiles, Hound moon.
There it is, fell through the night air, weightless.
He caught glimpses of the Tower of Bricken.
Caledas is still smoldering outline at the window, then below, the river coming up to meet him.
He slammed into the water, the cold shocking the breath out of him.
He panicked, disorientated, realizing he didn't know which way was up.
All about him was darkness and ice.
Then something grabbed his hair, and he was surging upwards, breaking through the water in a burst of spray,
and saw Alsion's pale broad face staring back at him.
"They will come hunting for us," the giant shouted over the roar of the river, as the current gripped them,
sweeping them away from the thunder of warriors' feet crossing the bridge.
"Let the water take us far from them."
Verida saw the sense of that, though his hands and feet were already numbing from the cold.
He put some effort into swimming, speeding his way from Bricken, from Caledas, from the Qadashim.
The thought still jolted him like a blow.
They turned a bend in the river, and the fortress was gone, darkness in folding them.
The soft weak sheen of dawn's gray light filtered down through the lattice of branches above, as Verida's met Alsion's gaze,
an unspoken agreement passing between them, as they both headed for the river back.
It was harder going, swimming across the current, and Verida's realized how exhausted his body was,
but eventually he felt silt beneath his feet, his hands grasping at reeds as he pulled himself out of the water,
and flopped onto his back, gasping, his limbs feeling lead-filled.
Turning, he saw Alsion on the bank.
Thirty of forty paces up river from him, staggering wearily towards him before he slumped down beside him with a groan,
water dripping from his drooping moustache.
"Thank you," Alsion said.
"For what?"
"Everything.
Most of all, for helping my family escape Bricken's dungeons.
His wife and bern.
How long has he gone without seeing them?
And what must he have suffered, knowing they were Caledus and Lycosy's prisoners?
And for destroying Caledus's effigy of me?"
Alsion continued, "You have set me free."
He gave a shudder, followed by a smile.
"A shadow is gone from my soul.
I feel reborn."
"If you mean you feel weak as a newborn bern,"
Veridus muttered as he emptied his boot of water and tried to pull it back on.
"Then I feel the same."
"That is not what I mean," the giant rumbled,
regarding Veridus with serious eyes.
"You set Rainer and Tane free."
"You set me free."
"I owe you a deck beyond all imagining."
"You are in no debt to me," Veridus said.
"I kick the effigy's into the fire on impulse,
not really knowing what they were or what power they held over you."
"But you suspected."
"I."
"Something that Fidele said."
He thought of Nithair's mother, hoped that she had made it to freedom
along with his brother, Krelis, McIn, and Halbin.
And your wife and son, I set them free because it was the right thing to do."
"There was no other choice."
"Ah, but there was true heart.
There always is."
Veridus shrugged.
"There is no debt between us."
"You are my friend."
"One of my only friends," it has turned out.
His thoughts swept bitterly to Nithair,
and the confession and revelations that had stunned Veridus.
He remembered Calidus's confession.
That Nithair had slain Aquilis, his own father.
Anger and shame twisted through him.
"There had been so many signs."
"How can I have been deceived for so long?"
"I am a fool."
"How long?"
Veridus asked him.
"How long have you been Calidus's prisoner?"
Alcyon smiled with it.
"Sixteen years."
"That is a long time."
"It is."
Alcyon clenched his fists, knuckles cracking.
"I should have killed him."
"To be fair, we both tried hard on that count.
I put a knife in his belly, threw him in a fire,
and he shattered his chest with a wall hammer.
"Cadoshim are hard to kill.
I'd have to agree.
Can he be killed?"
"Maybe taking his head."
"That is how the others are slain.
Others?"
Alcyon said to the question in Veridus's eyes.
"The Geeha," Veridus muttered, shaking his head.
"I've been so blind."
"You trusted your king and your friend."
Alcyon shrugged.
"There are worse failings to have."
"Are there?"
"I have dedicated my life to a lie."
"They both sat in silence, water dripping from clothes and hair."
"What now?"
Veridus said to himself.
"It feels as if my whole life has been dedicated to an affair in his cause."
"What do I do now?"
Alcyon regarded him gravely, and poked his chest with a thick finger.
"What does your heart tell you?"
"I will not trust it."
"Look, Veridus led me thus far."
Veridus said, "Sowling.
Your eyes are open now."
Veridus sucked in a deep breath, felt exhaustion seeping through him.
"What would you do?"
He asked the giant.
"Find my kin, my reina, and tain."
He smiled as he said their names.
"Kin."
"My father is slain."
"That is my brother, Ector."
"Only Krellus is left."
Suddenly he was desperate to see his older brother.
"Find our kin," he echoed.
"A good place to start."
"Something squawked."
A handful of wood pigeons suddenly bursting from the trees and flapping noisily overhead.
"We should move."
"We need cover."
"I."
"To the trees."
Veridus said, as he stood suppressing a groan.
They were halfway across the clearing when Alcyon stopped abruptly, staring back along the riverbank.
Forms appeared around a distant bend on the track.
Shadows in the half-light that forms canopy created.
Black shadows with curved swords sheath across their backs.
"Kado Shem."
Alcyon growled.
Veridus counted at least seven of them, moving quickly, a low-pin ground-eating paste like a pack of wolfen.
They were spread in a half-circle between the riverbank and the tree-line.
They are hunting us.
They have been running all night long following the river in search of our trail.
One of the figures paused, the others rippling to a halt about it.
It lifted its head as if tasting the air, then gave an allulating howl and leapt forwards a new energy in its stride.
They've caught our scent.
Veridus felt a jolt of fear.
He'd faced giants, dregs, war bands, but somehow knowing that the deans of the other world were hunting him sent a cold shock of fear tingling through his veins.
Kalidus filled his mind, an image of the man he had thought Counsellor and ally emerging from the fire in Brickann's tower, flaying reaved and snarling.
He has corrupted Nefair and has deceived me for so long.
He is the author of this evil.
Fear morphed into a cold rage and he reached for his sword, lips twisting.
Move.
Alcyon grunted and broke into a run.
Veridus resisted for a moment, inexplicably wanting to stand and flank these creatures, but Alcyon dragged him along and in a heartbeat, they were only a few strides from the tree-line.
He realized the giant had no weapon.
No war hammer or battle-like strapped across his back, no sword or dagger at his hip.
They crashed through the first layer of undergrowth and were immediately enveloped by a twilight world of shadow and thorn.
Alcyon forged ahead, grunting as branches snapped upon his rock-like torso, thorns whipping at Veridus, vines tangling about his boots.
For it seemed a long time, Veridus only heard his own heart thumping the rasp of his breath, the thud of Alcyon's feet.
Then there were sounds behind him, faint at first, like the rustle of wind through foliage, but soon louder, keening cries were floating about him.
They splashed through a string, something sinuous slivered beneath Veridus's feet, making him stumble.
"They are almost upon us," he gasped to Alcyon.
Better to turn and fight, hold a sword in my fist than die running.
"I know," the giant said, turning, chest-heaving.
Veridus drew his sword as they put their backs to a huge tree, the stream before them, and waited.
Forms flitted through the gloom, emerging from a curtain of shadows and thick foliage.
One was a long way ahead of the others, clothed in the dark male of the Jihar, pale-skinned, dark veins making a tapestry of its flesh.
It saw them and leapt the stream, arms reaching for Veridus, not even bothering to draw its sword.
"Remember, you must take their heads," Alcyon grunted, as he pushed away from the tree, hurling himself into the oncoming catachim with bone-crushing power.
The two fell to the ground.
Veridus hurtled forwards, sword raised, hacking two-handed at the catachim's arm.
Its hand spinning away, blood like oil, pumping languidly from the stump.
Then the two forms were rolling together again.
Alcyon ground in pain, then he was on his knees.
Arms wrapped about the catachim's torso, pinning its arms at its side.
The creature's head rived, veins bulging as it strained to break free.
Alcyon's face turning purple with the effort, his locked fingers slowly pulling apart.
"What are you waiting for?" the giant rasped.
And Veridus swung his sword, chopping into the creature's neck.
Dark blood spurted from the half-severed neck, the catachim's screeching with fury.
Alcyon roared with the strain of holding the creature.
Veridus ranged his sword free, and swung again.
The catachim's head flew through the air landing with a splash in the stream.
Its body slumped, legs drumming as Alcyon fell away and rolled clear.
A black eye-core-like mist flowed from the catachim's neck, hissing and swirling, gathering above its body,
forming a human shape with tattered wings of smoke spread about it and red eyes glowing like
colds at its heart.
Veridus stared.
Frozen.
It screamed savagely, then it was melting away, torn and dispersed by a slight breeze.
"What the hell?" Veridus gasped.
"Down!" Alcyon yelled, as he surged up from the ground, a fist slamming into the jaw
of a leaping catachim, hurling its spinning into the undergrowth.
Almost as soon as it hit the ground, it was back on its feet, twisting like a feral cat.
Veridus hefted his sword, spread his legs to meet the impact, and then something crunched into his side, sending him flying through the air another catachim's arms locked around his waist.
He caught a glimpse of Alcyon's standing, catachim's swarming upon him, then Veridus was slamming into the ground.
Pain exploded in his shoulder, and his sword skitted away.
He rolled, punched at his attacker, for a moment staring into its black, soulless eyes, then they were sliding into the stream that catachim beneath him,
his hands fastening about its neck, squeezing, seeking to crush the life from the black-eyed abomination.
It bucked and kicked like a wild stallion, thrashing a tempest amidst the streamwater, but Veridus would not let go.
He felt its strength ebbing, some of its vitality fading, then hands gripped him from behind, dragging him backwards, his fingers slipping as he was hauled to the bank.
Another catachim stood over him, drawing its sword from its back as the one from the stream splashed into view.
He rolled and saw a handful of catachim circling Alcyon, who had fallen to one knee, the giant bleeding from a dozen wounds.
Veridus tried to drag himself through the mud towards his friend.
Another catachim was held in Alcyon's arms, he had one hand gripping its jaw, the other wrapped about its chest.
With a savage wrench, Alcyon heaved.
Veridus heard the catachim's neck break, then the sound of flesh tearing, Alcyon screaming his defiance as he ripped the catachim's head from its shoulders.
He flung the corpse to the ground as the black mist boiled from the dead creature's wound.
The searing pain lance through Veridus' leg, a catachim blade scoring along his thigh.
He dropped to the ground, looked back at the two catachim on the stream bank.
They were following him, toying with him.
The one with a drawn sword slashed his blade across Veridus' uphill forearm, and you cut burning like fire.
"Think, will, bleed you a while," the catachim said, layering with pale lips.
"Pay you back for the chase you've led us."
It should not end like this.
Frustration gave Veridus a last surge of strength, and he rolled to his feet, pushed himself upright.
The catachim before him grinned, then paused, cocking its head to one side.
The figures burst out of the gloom.
Veridus' hopes rose in then fell, as he saw the newcomers were dressed in black breastplates with silver eagles on their chests.
Eagle guard.
No doubt said by Nefair to make sure that his monsters complete their task.
10.
12.
15 more men, one of them tall and wide.
Veridus blinked.
Something familiar.
Well met, little brother, the big man bellowed, grinning wildly.
A moment's confusion followed swiftly by elation.
"Crellas!"
Then Crellas and his men were attacking the catachim, Crellas taking their head in one great swing of his longsword.
Another warrior swept into view.
This one not dressed as a man of tenor brow, but gripping a knife in each hand.
He joined Crellas, and together they attacked the catachim before Veridus.
14.
Macquine and Crellas.
22.
Nefair
Nefair stood in the great hall of Drasil, and stared at the giant skeletonite's throne.
The bones of the ribcage surrounded a thick shafted spear, the wood, dark and pale vain.
Only a hint of black iron of the blade visible.
The rest buried in the great tree of Drasil.
So that is scald.
High king of the giants, and that is the starstone spear.
Scald.
The last man to rule a united empire where giants and men live together in peace.
Will I be the next to unite this shattered world?
The skeleton was mottled yellow and brown, ancient.
The brow of the skull broad and thick eye sockets, black holes that seemed to stare
at the fair, questioning him.
Are you worthy?
Are you capable?
He sighed.
History shall be my judge, nothing and no one else.
The hand touched his shoulder.
Cesar was standing at the head of three-score eagle guard.
The young warrior had been recently promoted to high captain of the fair's war band,
now that Veridis was gone.
Ah, there it is.
Are you dead or alive, old friend?
It does not seem right that you are not beside me to share in this great victory.
He had been informed of Veridis' betrayal.
His attempt on Caledus' life and he and Altheon's escape.
Veridis.
How could you abandon me?
Break your oath to me.
He looked at the white scars on the palm of his hand.
One of them made as a blood oath of brotherhood to Veridis,
on a moonlit hillside in Tenabrell.
It felt like a lifetime ago.
Words and promises spoken by different people.
My king, Cesar said.
It is Caledus.
He asks for you.
Nithair looked back at the skeleton one last time,
then turned and strode through the huge chamber.
The dead were still being cleared from the battle of the day before.
Bloods staying the stone floor.
Mounds of corpses lay in stinking piles.
Hundreds of them.
Caddishim, Jihah, Vinthalan, Eagleguard,
Bonothee Giants, many others.
The cost of taking Drasil had been high,
higher than he would have imagined considering that the element of surprise had been on their side.
But victory is victory.
The fortress is ours, the back of our enemy, broken.
Though many had escaped, reports were coming in of pitched battles still being fought beyond the walls of Drasil.
Nithair glanced at his right as he passed an open trap door as wide as the gates of Jerelin,
and the dark stain of blood on the stone before it.
My Caled's blood.
The Ben-Elim's head now adorned a spear set in the ground of the courtyard before the gates of Drasil.
It was not alone.
But what of Corbin, their bright star?
Where is he?
He glared mistrustfully into the yawning dark of the tunnel, knew that Michael had chosen to stand and fight there to gain time for many who escaped into the tunnel.
But Corbin, one of them.
There had been no reports of Corbin being seen during the battle.
Had even been here.
It had been a long night, and Nithair felt a greater wear in a settling upon him than he had ever known before.
Caesar snapped an order behind him, an eagle guard spread to either side, forming a protective column.
Drasil is not yet secure, Caesar said, and replied to Nithair's inquiring look.
The courtyard also bore the signs of yesterday's battle.
Bodies scattered all about flies buzzing, the metallic aroma of blood everywhere.
For an instant, Nithair thought he saw a wolf and carved tugging at the leg of a dead caddish him.
But looking back, realised it was a small white furred dog.
They turned a corner in a street, and the fair glimpsed the towering outer walls of Drasil beyond the layers of stone buildings latticed with thick branches.
This is a truly remarkable place.
Branches soared above him as thick as towers with buildings of stone and iron wrapped about them bound tighter than leather armor.
It looks almost alive.
The tree, the bones, the fortress, its flesh.
The rasp of a sword drawn from its scabbard drew his attention, and he glimpsed the black clothed warrior hurtling from the shadows of a doorway.
Probably, Caesar was yelling as more dark figures emerged, iron and glinting.
The eagle-guard moved.
Shields thudding together around the fair of scuring his view.
Blood sprayed, spattering the fair's face as an eagle-guard before him collapsed.
A black clothed gihar slipped into the gap carved in the shield wall, surging toward the fair.
The fair drew his sword, fear and rage his constant companions igniting within him.
The shouts and screams a battle faded, his world contracting to the gihar warrior before him.
A woman, her dark-skinned face all sharp bones almost fragile looking.
Truth and courage, she yelled, curved sword rising.
There was an explosion of sparks as their weapons met, the power of the gihar's strike making the tendons of his wrist shriek, shattering on into his arm and shoulder.
He pushed forwards, knowing to retreat, was to die, tried to move within her guard, use his short sword where her longer blade would hinder her.
They collided, limbs tangling as both crashed to the ground, wrestling, punching, kicking and biting at each other as they rolled back and forth across the stone street with a battle raging all about them.
The gihar struck a glancing blow that made his vision blur, then her knee crunched into his groin and he slumped, pain exploding, pulsing through him in savage waves, draining his strength.
She pulled herself free, and half rose as he coughed into the cold stone, tried to rise, knew if he didn't, he was dead.
Fear and rage sparked inside him, sent new energy coursing through his veins. "I'll not die here."
The gihar stood over him, sword raised, her eyes bright with victory.
Then a form crashed into her, throwing her to the ground.
She started to rise and a boot slammed into her jaw, sent her crashing back down.
The figure was blurred, a buzzing clown swirling about it.
Hands gripped him and pulled him upright, says his concerned face appeared, blood shooting from a long cut across his forehead.
Nefair looked past him, saw his rescuer pull a sword from a scabbard upon its back and raise it over the unconscious gihar.
A kadashim.
"No," Nefair called. The figure's head turned to look at him, the buzzing cloud parting.
"Flies," Nefair realized, recognizing the kadashim.
"No, Legion. I want her alive."
The kadashim regarded him for a moment with cold black eyes.
"Better, dead," it said. "I want her alive," Nefair snapped.
"Calyters may have questions."
"Dead, after, then," the kadashim said, then sheathing its sword.
"Calyters, once you."
The flesh of its face are neck rippled, seeming to move its own accord as if something were locked within trying to get out.
About them, the battle seemed almost done.
Nefair scanned the street, countingly a score of his eagle guard dead to five or six of their gihar attackers.
This part of Jassel is supposed to have been cleared, he snulled.
"How did they get in here?"
He looked down at the unconscious gihar's form at Legion's feet.
"Bring her," Nefair said, as he marched away.
As Nefair entered the courtyard before Jassel's gates,
he heard a rumbling growl reverberate from one of the many stables that edged the courtyard.
He looked fondly at the doors that contained his drag.
"Calyters stood before the closed gates of Jassel,
to either side of him where a host of spears driven into the ground,
most of them adorned with a head."
The handful of Vinfallen warriors were planting new spears into the ground,
while behind them, Kalyashim prowled into the courtyard's shadows.
Before Kalyters knelt a ragged group of people, bound at wrist and ankle,
over 300 prisoners from yesterday's battle.
Above them, eagle guards stood upon Jassel's walls.
My warriors.
They were easily the best discipline troops amongst those that had stormed Jassel.
The Kalyashim and many of Lycuss's Vinfallen were involved in the pursuit of their scattered enemy out beyond Jassel's walls.
But Nothair suspected that most by far were ranging throughout the forest, looting and drinking.
The Kalyashim were doing other things, such as eating their victims.
Lycuss was standing behind Kalyters.
A dozen Vinfallen ranged about him, hard-looking men, bodies lean and muscular, skin, weathered and scarred.
Lycuss lifted a water skin to his mouth and took a long drink.
I'd wade to it's not water that he's drinking.
The Vinfallen saw him approaching and nodded, greeting.
Nothair hid his disgust.
Him and my mother.
Ah, Nothair.
Kalyters said.
He raised an eyebrow at the blood on the fair's face, then saw Legion dragging the Gehar warrior across the courtyard by her ankle.
Kalyters, Nothair said, with a dip of his head.
His old counselor was not looking his best.
Part of his face was burned, charcoal black and peeling.
Silver hair was growing in tufts from patches on his head, elsewhere cinged to stubble or burned clear.
It would appear that the streets of Jassel are not yet cleared of our enemy, Nothair said sourly.
As Legion dumped the Gehar warrior in front of Kalyters.
She groaned, pushing herself to her knees as Legion's hand clamped on her shoulder holding her before Kalyters.
"What is your name, child?" Kalyters asked, regarding her with his cold eyes.
She spat blood at Kalyters's feet and gloured up at him.
"Eelter," the Gehar said, "and I am no child."
"Well, Eelter, I shall ask you the same question that I have just put to your comrades.
Where is Corbin?"
"You will see him soon enough," a voice said from amongst the prisoners.
"He will come for you."
"And when he does," said Eelter, as she turned her head to look from Kalyters to Nothair and like us, "he will kill you all."
"He is a boy, a puppet, your eel master is already slain," Kalyters said angrily, sweeping her hand towards Michael's head.
"You are wrong," Eelter said.
"Corbin is our lord. He slew your best, Sumer, in single combat. We all saw it. He will do the same to you."
"Sumor," Kalyters frowned. "I saw his head decorating your gates."
"Corbin killed him," the prisoners voiced called out again, one vaguely familiar to Nothair.
"Your figure straightened amongst the captives, black hair hanging lank about her face."
"He took Sumer's head, and he will take yours too."
"Ah," Cohen.
"I want nothing more than for him to come and try," Kalyters said with a sigh, his expression mocking, but Nothair glimpsed something else in his eyes.
"Doubt?"
"But so far, he does not seem inclined to do so," Kalyters continued.
"Perhaps a message would have speed him to us."
"He looked to the Kalishim."
"Lijian, choose one prisoner and impale them upon a spear," he ordered.
"Lijian drabbed Cohen and pulled her struggling towards a spear, Nothair," Kalyters said, with a wave of his hand.
"Lijian grabbed another prisoner.
He was a man of his ill-tiered by the look of him.
The Kalishim hoisted him effortlessly into the air and brought him down slowly upon the upright spear.
Then the screaming began.
When it was over, the prisoner was skewered like a squirrel ready for the cookfire.
He was writhing upon the spear, blood pooling about his feet, screaming himself to oblivion.
Nothair resisted the urge to cover his ears.
"On your feet," Kalyters said to Elta.
"Go and tell Koroban what is happening to his followers what I am doing.
Tell him I will not stop until he has faced me."
Lijian pushed her stumbling forwards as with a rumble.
The gates opened.
She looked back once and then ran.
The gates slamming behind her.
Kalyters barked in order and the remaining captives were led away.
Koroban caught Nothair's eye as she walked in line, hatred pouring from her.
"We must talk soon," Kalyters said to Nothair and like us.
"Hi son, in the great hole."
Then he was striding away.
Like us raised an eyebrow and offered Nothair his water skin.
"Without thinking," Nothair took it and drank, then coughed almost choking on the contents.
"Is that?"
"Meade," Lyca's finished for him.
Filling their dozen wagons with barrels full of the stuff.
Nothair handed it back to him and Lyca's walked away, chuckling to himself.
He's been thal and following him.
Nothair headed for the wide stairs that scaled Drassil's walls and climbed to the top.
Stopping above the great gates where he stared out of the world beyond.
A wide, plain, circled the fortress, clear blue sky bathing the ground in sunshine before
the great trees are formed, blotted it from view.
He caught a glimpse of Illta just before she disappeared into the tree line.
Behind him, he heard the footsteps of Caesar and his eagle guard stopping a respectful distance away.
The screams of the impaled in the courtyard were much fainter up here, fading to a pathetic muelling.
He wished he would just die.
"How have I allowed myself to come to this?"
"It is for the greater good.
For me to win the war, Corbin must die.
To bring peace to the banished lands, Corbin must die."
He felt his resolve stir, but still the screens wormed their way into his head,
reminding him of other battles, other deaths in the name of this great cause.
And now I follow the path of Qadoshim, of demons, of Asroth himself.
He remembered Qadoshim's words to him in Murias, so persuasive.
"It had all been so logical when Qadoshim explained it made sense of the alliances, the lies, deception upon deception heaped in a great pile.
But the truth is simpler, a voice seemed to whisper inside his mind.
"Deep down, he knew."
It was more basic when all was stripped away.
Caled as his persuasive arguments and philosophical debates on good and evil, right and wrong,
the abstract meanings that were attached to names.
Politics, power struggles, who deserved what?
The honest answer was much simpler than any of those meandering debates,
and one that had been clearly reinforced by his brief struggle with the Jihad warrior before him.
"I don't want to lose."
Chapter 3
Corbin
Corbin sat with her back to a tree, staring into the dawn gloom of form,
absolutely twirling a knife between her fingers.
Behind her were the sleeping forms of three score or serve the survivors within she had fled Dressell.
Amongst them was Brenner, grey hair poking from beneath her cloak,
beside her the bolts of feral and leaf curled close together.
She glimpsed the Jihad, Akar, standing guard on the far side of their camp.
Exhaustion halved at the fringes of her consciousness, and in so many ways it would be wonderful to lose herself
and the nothingness of sleep.
But she couldn't.
Her mind was reeling, a whirlwind of grief, fear and rage as fractured moments of the previous day played out in her mind's eye.
Out of them all, though, everything kept returning to one thought circling.
Where is Corbin?
The fog of tiredness crept upon her again.
A relentless assault, but she knew that sleep would not come, the shock and horror of yesterday's battle was still too present.
There was a soft footfall from behind, and a figure came to stand beside her.
Gah.
The lord of the Jihad looked at her, lines of worry etched upon his usually unreadable face.
He was clothed in a shirt of dark chain-mail, splattered with grime and blood.
His curved sword sheathed across his back, a single-bladed, throwing axe, hanging at his belt.
Even he was not free of injury.
A blood-stained bandage was tied around his forehead.
Storm is with him.
Gah said.
As if he could read her thoughts.
There must be his plan to read upon my face as I his.
Storm.
That was a measure of comfort.
Corinne knew that the wolfin was a better guardian than a dozen sheildmen, but still.
"We will find him," Gah said.
Corinne had seen the familiar scuff marks of Storm's claws in the tunnel, which was why they had exited at this spot.
After a brief search, she'd found more tracks, leading to the brow of the slope, but darkness has settled upon them.
No matter how frustrating, it was pointless to stumble around in the dark.
But where can Corinne be?
He must have heard the din of battle from Drassel, even if he were this far away.
The thoughts rose unbidden in her mind.
The one thought she'd refuse to acknowledge throughout the long dark of night.
What if he is slain?
What else could have kept him from returning to Drassel?
She felt a worm of fear wriggling through her belly, but refused to consider it.
He lives.
He must.
She nodded, and stood.
She leaving her knife, a myriad of cuts, bruises, and strains, aching for attention.
She ignored them all.
"We need to go," she said.
"I." Gah agreed.
He continued to stare at the trapdoor.
I had hoped that my cow would find us, that he escaped."
Corinne remembered her last sight of the Ben-Elim.
Wielding his sword, two-handed, feet planted before the entrance to the tunnel in Drassel's great hall as they had retreated into its shadows.
Swayves of blood had surrounded him as he swung his sword in deadly arcs, holding back the enemy, protecting them, purchasing them time to escape.
He would come by now, if he could.
Corinne said.
Gah sighed and nodded.
Corinne cocked her head, listening, staring down the hill.
Something was moving in the undergrowth, heading towards the trapdoor.
Gah saw it too, and without words the two of them separated, slipping into the shadows as they quietly surrounded the intruder.
Bushes rustled, a twig snapped, and Corinne caught a glimpse of dark hair.
She knew he wasn't Corinne, even he isn't that clumsy.
A figure burst from the undergrowth.
A young man clad in leather and wool, his dark hair, tousled, and a scabbing cut marking his forehead.
He started at the sight of her, fumbled for a weapon at his belt, his eye is widening.
"I know you," Corinne said, though she didn't remember his name.
"Your da is itilius."
A competent, unassuming warrior, itilius had been a slave oarsman on a Vinth Island ship.
The lad nodded.
His lip trembling.
"Pax, what are you doing here?"
Gah said, stepping silently from the shadows, making the young warrior jump again.
"You must come quickly."
Pax blurted.
"My da.
Corbin.
Giants."
"Corbin?"
Corinne hissed.
"I.
We must go."
Tears were spilling down Pax's cheeks now, tracing tracks through blood and grime.
He stared.
Corinne froze, feeling as if a fist had just clamped around her heart.
"I ran."
Pax said.
"He began to shake, an involuntary twitching that quickly became more violent."
"Where is Corbin?"
Corinne asked, trying to control the panic leaking through her, reaching out to grab the
now sobbing boy and shake the sense from him.
"Hold," Gah said, putting a hand upon her arm.
"Pax, you must tell us as clearly as you can.
Where is Corbin and your da?
What happened?"
"Others were coming down the hill now."
Corinne glimpsed daff in colour, a handful of jihad, lathe looming behind them.
"We heard.
Fighting.
New Corbin was out there."
Pax began, haltingly.
"We found him, facing giants and bears."
"What?"
"But there were no giants in the fair at Dressel."
"Dah.
He threw a spear at a giant.
Then we all ran.
We thought we'd lost them.
Then..."
"Go on," Gah said.
The whole group was gathered around them now, listing in absolute silence.
"They came from nowhere.
My da?"
He rubbed his eyes, blew out a long breath.
"They killed my da."
Corbin told me to run to fetch help.
"When did this happen?"
Gah asked, not able to keep the urgency from his voice.
"Yesterday, after his son before, sunset."
Pax's face had grown paler as he spoke.
"Now he looked like a corpse.
I ran.
I fell, hit my head."
He raised the hand to the cut on his brow.
"When I came to?"
It was dark.
"I've been trying to find my way since then."
"Take us.
Now," Gah said.
"I will try."
Pax nodded.
I became lost for a while.
But I know it was that direction."
Gah barked orders and then they were moving.
Corbin taking the lead with Pax,
Gah jogging beside the ladder, steadying hand on his arm.
Corbin stormed, facing giants.
Alone.
Yesterday.
She sent a silent prayer to Elion,
one of many that she had made over the last half day.
"Let them still live."
Corbin was the first to enter the glade.
At its far end was a sudden ridge,
and beyond it, the sound of a fast flowing river.
The smell hit her first.
The metallic tang of blood and decay.
Death.
Flies were buzzing in great clouds
about bodies heaped on the floor.
She counted three giant corpses on the ground,
and Attilius pinned to a great oak by a giant's axe.
She could not see Corbin or storm.
She ran to the first giant,
who was on his back, a hole in his belly,
throat cleanly cut,
his wrist bearing the tail tail ripping wounds of the wolfen.
Corbin moved on,
dimly aware of others spilling into the glade behind her,
the sound of Pax's sobs as he dropped to his knees before his dark,
Gah's presence at her shoulder.
The other two giants were close together.
The ground trampled, rutted, dark and still sticky with blood.
One's throat had been ripped out by storm,
the flesh mangled and torn.
Here's not here, nor storm.
The relief was a physical thing,
though she knew their absence did not mean
that they were safe for even alive,
but it was clear they had fought here and won.
They slew three giants.
She felt a flush of pride at that feat,
knew that it would be a story told around the campfire this very night,
adding to the tails that were growing up around Corbin
and his wolfen companion.
The other giant lay upon his front.
Gah and Corbin tried to turn him over together,
flies buzzed angrily,
the huge warrior's dead weight like a boulder.
Ferrell and Laith joined them,
and together they rolled the giant,
the stench of corruption and decay,
wafting up to them as they disturbed the body.
"He is of the Jotun clan," Laith spat,
as they stood instead of a dead giant.
"What are they doing here?"
Corlin's eyes were drawn to the glint of leather
and iron amidst the congealed blood.
She bent and wrapped a fist around the hilt of a sword,
buried deep in the giant's thigh,
angled upwards into its groin.
He came free with a sucking sound,
and she lifted it for them all to see.
The pommel shaped like a howling wolfen.
The relief she'd felt fled,
replaced by the crushing weight of fear.
"That's band sword," Dath said, as he joined them.
Cola, a pace behind him.
Corlin stared at them a moment,
caught a wave of sympathy for them.
They'd been weighed less than two nights.
Gah took the sword from her and stared at it.
"I watched band's dar give him this blade."
"In the row and field at Dunkarig," Farrell said,
"I remember it."
"And I," Dath muttered.
Cola turned away,
her eyes scanning the ground,
searching for any sign.
"He is not here."
Storm is not here.
They escaped, but they did not make their way back to Drasil.
"Why?"
Brenner was on her knees beside the giant.
The old healer had a file in one hand,
a knife in the other that she was using to scrape blood
from the trampled grass.
One side of Brenner's face was still an angry red,
seared by the explosion she had generated
that rocked the chamber and Drasil yesterday.
Whatever benefit Brenner thought the giant's blood would bring,
she was welcome to it.
As Corlin scanned the rest of the clearing,
her eyes caught a patch of crushed grass spattered with blood.
It was close to the edge of the glade,
leading to his sheer drop to the river below.
As if something were dragged,
she followed the marks and dropped to a crouch,
looking down to the river.
Further down she spied a dark smear on a boulder.
Blood.
They jumped into the river.
She galled out.
Gar was first to join her.
His eyes found the same evidence,
and he gripped her wrist.
After them, he said.
Corlin led the way,
running along the ridge that shadowed the river,
twisting around thick-rooted trees in dense vegetation.
Her eyes flitting between the path she was navigating
and the banks of the river.
Rounding a sharp bend in the path,
she suddenly saw a shape lying on a grassy verge,
firm atted, and bloodstained.
Her heart stopped.
Storm.
She skidied to a halt on the ridge above the wolfen,
her part of her mind noticing large boot prints in the grass.
In a spray of dirt,
she scrambled over the edge,
clinging to root and vine as she made her way down to the river bank.
Storm lay still as stone,
and she was covered in blood a huge wound was visible above her shoulder.
Corlin crouched, too scared to touch her,
not wanting to confirm what her eyes were telling her.
Stifling tears,
she remembered the first time she had seen Storm,
when she had threatened to turn the wolfen into a cloak.
Even then, she had seen the bond between Corbin
and his faithful and vigilant shadow.
Since then, she had developed her own bond with the wolfen,
more like a sword brother to her than a mere animal.
As guard joined her,
she tentatively reached out her hand and laid it upon Storm's body.
She felt nothing.
No.
Please, Elion above.
She screwed her eyes shut tight,
pressed harder,
flattening her palm against Storm's deep chest,
willing her hands to feel the movement of life,
a drawn breath, the pumping of Storm's heart.
With every moment, her hopes faded,
a bleakness taking hold inside spreading through her like ink through water.
And then, she felt it.
A flicker, a heartbeat deep within the cavern of Storm's broad chest.
Corlin opened her eyes and saw Storm's amber gaze regarding her.
The wolfen whined a weak, miserable sound,
but one that gave Corlin a rush of joy.
Storm's tail thumped feebly on the turf.
Chapter 4.
Corbin
Corbin walked through a world of grey,
dimly aware that he was staggering,
close to a wide and dark river.
There was a splash and a wide ripple,
the hint of something large and sinuous in its depths.
Bloated dark clouds boiled above him,
flickering with lightning,
and black shapes winged through them with an occasional gleam of chainmail and iron.
This is the other world.
His knee throbbed and a pain spasm through his chest with every in-drawn breath.
He fixed his eyes on the ground before him,
concentrated on each step.
There had always been an element of the other world that calmed him,
a serenity that settled within him that gave him a sense of strength and hope.
But this time was different.
There was something frayed about the peacefulness.
It felt false.
Something lurked at the fringes of his mind,
trying, needing to be remembered.
When next he looked up,
the river was flowing into a valley,
cliffs rearing up by the side of him tall and forbidding.
The head of him, the river spilt into a lake.
Vibrant colour was seeping into the landscape with every step into the valley,
the grass grew greener, the river bluer, as if colour was seeping up from the rock below.
I know this place.
Have been here before.
The green valley and the lake of deep blue.
Gentle waves lapped against the shore.
A sound drew Corbin's eye towards the lake's heart,
a splash and ripples as if a stone had been thrown into water.
His memory prodded at him and his eyes wandered back to the lake shore,
searching for something else and then he saw it.
The red leafed maple that he had once sat beneath.
Without thinking he made his way to it and sat down his back to the trunk.
Everything was still.
No breeze to stir the grass or leaves, no harm of insects.
The silence was oppressive.
And then, high above, like a heartbeat, there was a beat of wings.
He glanced up through the lattice of leaf and bark and saw a figure silhouetted against the clouds,
human-like, a spear clutched in one hand, broad white feathered wings powering it through the air.
The Ben-Elim.
Mical.
Then, like an avalanche, he remembered.
Mical, in the great hall of dressill, telling Corbin about the deception of the Ben-Elim,
how the prophecy was nothing more than a strategy, a trick to force Azeroth's hand, to lure Caledus and the Catachem to dressill.
That the bright star and black sun were an invention, fabricated to snare Azeroth in the trap of his own making.
A sound strategy, maybe, in the great war between Ben-Elim and Catachem, the faithful and the fallen,
apart from the fact that it used people's lives like pawns on a throwboard.
My dar's life, my mams, so many others.
Rage swept through him, vamed with betrayal at the memory of Mical's confession.
He remembered resisting the urge to strike Mical, then leaving, knowing his rage was at the boundaries of his control,
and had ended up sitting upon a hill in the forest.
He had sat there a long time, contemplating Mical's words, trying to make some sense of what he would mean for the future.
And then the jot-on giants had come.
Ill dair, their warlord, Slayer of Tuckle, Gar's dar.
Images flicked through his mind, a bare, roaring, spittle spraying from its red moor, running, foliage whipping his face,
the thunder of the bear's pursuit, the wounds to his knee and chest, a spear piercing storm, a river, ice cold water.
Storm howling as giants had dragged him away from her side.
Storm.
Pang shuddered through Corbin's chest as if someone were gripping his heart, squeezing and twisting it.
He couldn't breathe.
His sorrow was a physical thing that crushed the air from his lungs, he staggered towards the lake, dropping to his knees at the water's edge.
Even as he did so, more memories flooded his mind than unstoppable wave of Drasil,
the frantic blowing of horns and sound of battle that had drifted up to him.
Images of his loved ones swam before his eyes, Corbin, Gar, Cohen, Daff and Farrell, Brenner so many others.
Do they still live?
Who was attacking Drasil?
dimly he became aware of movement.
Before him, the water of the lake started to shift and foam, something rising from the depths.
The shape appeared, water cascading and masking for a moment, the creature within.
Then a man was striding from the lake with water dripping from the dark cloak that trailed him like seaweed.
He approached Corbin.
An interested, amicable smile upon his face.
His skin was gray-mottled and vamed like a dead thing.
His hair was black and slick as oil.
A black scabbarded sword hung at his hip.
"Well," the man said.
"It's not often that I get visitors."
His voice was liquid, flowing like a shallow stream over shingle.
"What brings you to my home?"
"I, I've been here before," Corbin said.
"I know, I've watched you."
"This is the other world," Corbin said.
"It is, and this lake, this tree, this valley," the dark head man said with the wave of his hands, "our mine."
He shrugged.
"Water dripping from his hair."
"Are you?"
"Ben Ellum," Corbin asked.
The man laughed.
A damp exhalation.
"Those pompous fools, no, though to my shame we are related."
"Cardachim," Corbin asked fearful.
"Hardly," the man snorted.
"Those fawning debauch deviance.
Do I look like one of them?"
"No," Corbin admitted.
"Well, then, I am just me."
"Virefon."
He lifted his hands, held one up to the sky, displayed his fingers.
Corbin saw that they were webbed like a frog's feet.
"You are from the world of flesh, are you not?"
The man said.
Corbin nodded whereily.
"And what is your name?
Creature of flesh."
Virefon asked him, leaning in uncomfortably close.
His breath washing over Corbin moist and full of rot.
Corbin did not want to tell him.
"I'm going to go now," he said, standing.
"I don't want him to be far away from his creature."
"I don't think so," Virefon sighed.
"I think we should continue this conversation somewhere a little more."
"Private."
Corbin backed away, turning to leave.
Something grabbed his ankle.
Looking down he saw that it was a tendril of Virefon's cloak, flexing like a grasping limb.
It wrapped itself around his leg as Virefon walked back towards the lake then,
looking strength, the cloak pulled tight and started dragging Corbin.
For a moment, Corbin was too shocked to resist, but then he scrambled back,
yanking at his ankle, hand grasping for his sword.
"Come on, don't Dali!"
Virefon called over his shoulder as he reached the lake.
He walked in, sinking rapidly.
The cloak seemed to split, to flow, forming a myriad of strands,
reaching up to Corbin, each one contracting around his ankles, wrists and throats.
Then he was being pulled down to the lake shore,
trust like a fly in a spider's web, into the water.
Panic filled him as his head sank beneath the surface,
and he struggled desperately, straining Vain's bulging muscles, screaming.
With a sinewed tearing effort, he pulled one arm free,
and then he was bursting out of the water, hoisted into the air, dangling before the creature,
held up by his dark cloak that looked now more like a squirming nest of snakes.
Corbin gasped for breath, ripping at the cloak strands and closing him to little effect.
Virefon regarded him with a cold fascination.
"Tell me your name," Virefon said, anger swelling in his voice the crash of waves upon rocks.
"Let me go!" Corbin grunted through his constricted chest.
"You have trespassed here," disturbed my rest.
Virefon said wetly as he pulled Corbin closer.
"In return, I will have some answers, and then, after I may see how you taste."
A wave of found breath in golfed Corbin making his stomach lurch.
"What are you?" Corbin coughed.
"I am Virefon," the creature said.
His mouth opening wide, seeming to grow before Corbin's eyes wider and wider,
revealing rows of razor-sharp teeth glistening and dripping with mucus.
"Eater of souls!"
There was a whistling sound, and a spear slammed into Virefon's cloak, piercing it.
Virefon screamed as Ben Elim swept down from the sky.
More spears flew stabbing into Virefon's body.
His yell deepened into a bellow of pain and rage,
and Corbin found himself thrown to the ground as the creature turned its attention to its attackers.
Then hands were grasping Corbin, and he was hoisted into the air again.
There was a Ben Elim eye, the side of him surging, skywards, their wings beating hard.
Within heartbeats, the conflict in the lake was below them.
Virefon and his living cloak sinking into the water,
one strand coiling around a Ben Elim, dragging it beneath the surface.
The Ben Elim's scream cut short as the water closed over its head.
They flew higher, following the course of a winding valley,
twisting and turning amongst peaks and sheer cliffs,
until Corbin's or a fortress appeared in the crags,
a series of towers and battlements.
Carved from bone-white stone, it seemed to glow even under the dark clouds
that pressed down from above.
The silhouettes of Ben Elim filled the air about its towers,
some spiraling amidst the clouds, others hovering sentinels with long spears and glistening mail.
He saw that many more patrolled the long, winding walls,
and the sounds of combat drifted up to him from the huge courtyard between the high towers.
They are sparring, as we were in Jassel.
They are preparing for war.
His rescue was alighted upon the flat roof of a tower and half-dranked Corbin through an archway,
down a flight of stairs, marching him into a huge high-sealing chamber.
Within it, thousands of Ben Elim stood, all gleaming mail and white feathers,
a dense crown which parted before Corbin and his guards in an elegant ripple of feather and mail.
Their pale, emotionless face is staring at him.
In front of him was a raised deus, wide steps leading up to it,
and upon it, a great white throne, paler's bone,
a splayed back fashion to look like feathered wings that rose and curled about the figure slumped within it.
Its white feathered wings were wrapped around the figure like a great cloak,
feather tips drooping the floor.
The figure's head was bowed, dark hair hanging, concealing its face.
As Corbin was march closer, the figure raised its head,
its hair parting to reveal a familiar face that stared back at him.
Micah
Emotions ignited within Corbin warring with one another,
relief at seeing the face of a comrade, a friend in this strange place,
but alongside that the still raw wound of Micah's betrayal.
Corbin felt his cheeks flush with anger, even as Micah sat straighter,
his face wracked with grief and pain,
an expression that was so out of place on the face of creatures normally marble carved in expressionless.
What is wrong with him?
Micah drew in a shuddering breath.
"Thank Elion," Micah said.
"You still live in your weld of flesh.
If your spirit is here, then your body has survived."
Micah seemed to struggle with his speech,
as if each word took an effort of pain and will.
Otherwise, your spirit would have crossed the bridge of swords."
Corbin blinked.
Micah reached out, beckoning Corbin to come closer.
Corbin flinched away, "Don't touch me," Corbin snapped,
remembering the great horn and dressill.
"The great lie."
Corbin heard it is of outrage rippled through the room behind him.
"Michael held a hand up.
Peace," Micah said.
"But one of the Ben-Elim spluttered.
This creature of flesh he gives insult to you are high-capped in second only to the all-father.
He has a good cause," Micah said, luring his head.
He leaned back in his chair and gestured for Corbin to stand.
Corbin saw that Micah was paler than he'd ever seen him.
Around his neck was a red wound, raw and angry.
It was leaking some clear ico-like substance.
"What happened to you," Corbin said.
"Sometimes, if the wound is bad in the world of flesh,
we bring a shadow of it with us back to the other world."
Corbin's hand went to his chest.
The dull ache felt with every breath and understood that it was an echo of his broken ribs.
"So, what is that a shadow of?" Corbin said, pointing to Micah's wound.
"I was beheaded in dressill," Micah said.
"What?"
The hornblasts, the sounds of battle that I heard.
A seed of dread unfurled deep in Corbin's gut.
Caledas, nathair, they attacked.
"How?" the tunnels, Micah said, "wirly."
"What are my friends and kin, my people?"
"Some escaped," Micah breathed.
"Gah, let every treat down the north, tunnel, I held the kadashim as long as I could."
He shook his head.
"Dracil is taken."
The fortress, fallen.
Taken by nathair and Caledas.
The implications hit Corbin like a stone fist.
My warband defeated.
Those that followed me, trusted me, dead.
My friends.
See what your scheming has achieved.
He snarled and launched himself at Micah.
His attack was so unexpected and so fast that he had his fingers clamped about Micah's throat before anyone could move.
Then there was an explosion of activity behind him, shouting, hands, grasping him, wings, flexing, beating.
Blows rained upon Corbin, but he shrugged them off, continued squeezing.
Micah did not fight back, just sat within the great wings of his throne and stared into Corbin's eyes as he cried tears of grief and rage.
"You have motored my friends!"
He yelled.
A red rage swallowing him, replacing his despair.
Something crunched into his head and the world disappeared for a moment in a white explosion.
He felt his fingers slipping from Micah.
I'll try to hold on, but then more hands were gripping him, dragging him back, pressing him onto his knees.
He looked up to see weapons raised over him and angry faces encircling him.
A spear was speeding towards his heart.
"No," Micah said, and the spear froze, a hand span from Corbin's chest.
Angry voices called out, Corbin heard words like punishment and sacrilege.
"No," Micah repeated, and the crowd parted before Corbin to reveal Micah still sitting on the throne.
He regarded Corbin with his emotionless face back in place, though Corbin thought he saw cracks within it.
"He has caused to be angry with me."
"Angry!"
Corbin shook his head.
"You lied to me.
To all of us in trashill, used us as baits, as pawns!
All of you!" he added, glaring at the Ben L.M. gathered around him.
Most of them are glaring back at him.
"And now, it seems that your plan has worked a little too well."
"You certainly brought Caledas running to Drasill. Tell me, Micah, was it also part of your plan for Drasill to fall?
For my friends, my kin, my people, to be slaughtered."
He ground his teeth swallowed.
"Or for you to be beheaded."
"No."
"It was not," Micah said with a slow sigh.
The war is lost before it even began.
The banish lands conquered.
All those whom I love, slain or scattered.
Despair rose up in him then, draining all energy from his limbs.
He slumped in his captors' grip.
"It is not over," Micah said.
It took a few moments for his words to seep through the fog of misery and hopelessness that engulfed Corbin.
"Of course it is," Corbin whispered.
"No, not while you live, not while Caledas still seeks the seven treasures."
He needs them all to fulfill his plan and until then, Asroth is bound here in the other world.
"There is no way back from this. We don't know that," Micah said.
"Gah, led many from Jasil, they may still live.
There are those who would still stand against Nithair and Caledas.
There is still hope."
Corbin's head snapped up, locking eyes with Micah.
"Do not speak to me of hope.
You who have fed me lies all my life."
"You are no better than Asroth in his car to shame a liar.
A deceiver, and I wish I'd never met you."
Angry words rippled around the chamber.
"My Cales gaze, hardened.
I have allowed you the courtesy of expressing your anger, but do not go too far."
"There is more at stake here than your hurt feelings you are behaving like an angry child."
He paused, visibly sagged in his chair, plus a hand over his eyes.
"Your whole world lies in the balance.
It is not over yet there is still hope, a fighter's chance.
"There is no chance, nothing that I can do back in the banish lands.
I am a captive of the jolten wound in my bones, broken, and storm his dead."
His voice choked in his throat, a fresh wave of emotions swelling in his chest.
Micah lowered his head.
Another grievous blow, he muttered.
Storm was a better guardian than a score of sheildman.
She was more than my guardian.
Corbin snald.
She was my companion.
My friend.
He rubbed his eyes, angrily brushed away his tears.
"Your lies?
Of course the death of my kin, my da, my mam, my friends, and so many others.
All of them dying for a hope that never existed.
All of them dying for me.
And because you underestimated Caledas, you have left us with no chance.
While there is breath in your body, there is a chance."
Micah shouted, leaning forwards in his chair, hands gripping the armrests.
For a moment, his cold face melted away.
And if there is no chance of victory, then what a vengeance?
Two more, then talk and whine.
Seek your vengeance for those fallen.
Or would you rather, wallow in self-pity, then try to save your loved ones?"
He sagged.
The effort clearly draining him.
I will not be told what to do by him.
I will be controlled and manipulated by him no longer.
Nevertheless, Micah's words affected him.
Images of Gar and Coen, Coraline, Farron and Daff, Brenner, Hidana.
So many others that he had met during a long, hard journey from his home in Dunkarag to Drassel.
And the thought of them without him, perhaps fighting, maybe dying.
For a moment, all he wanted was to get back to them.
To be at their side.
I will not abandon them to death or torment, let them face the end alone.
I must go back if there is a chance to help them.
He looked up at Micah.
Felt his fists clenching.
"I will go back, but not for you.
Not for any of you.
I'm your puppet no longer.
I go to help those that I love."
Micah stared at him for long, silent moments.
Then nodded his head.
"I will help you all that I can, though I am bound to the other world now.
I cannot return to the banished lands.
I don't want your help."
Corbin growled.
Micah finally nodded.
"Good?" he whispered.
He approached Corbin and placed the palm of his eyes, whispering words that Corbin could not hear.
He opened his mouth to say something, but then the world seemed to fade about him.
Chapter 5.
Rafe.
Rafe felt something wet and rough scratching across his cheek.
He wanted to move, but found he lacked the ability.
Even opening his eyes was too much of an effort.
So he just lay there, allowing his other senses to wash over him.
He ached.
His muscles, joints, his very bones seem to throb.
But even as he became aware of the sensation, it began to fade, transforming into something else.
A sense of relaxed exhaustion, like lying in a hot bath after a long hunt.
He could hear birdsong, the ripple of river water and the holes of moored boats nudging into one another.
Beyond that, the drum of hooves, many feet, voices.
He did not know how long he lay on the ground like that, but at some point the rough wet scratching on his face came back.
A dog's tongue licking him.
A smile cracked his lips and he opened his eyes.
An explosion of light burst upon him, feeling as if rays of the sun had pierced his skull, lancing through his head.
He screwed his eyes shut, the pain dimmed.
He tried again slowly this time.
He saw a black nose, snuffling, fur tickling his chin.
"That old sniffer?" he croaked.
His voice roar and cracked.
Ignoring the pain he pulled himself to his knees, then to his feet.
He staggered and braced himself against the wide trunk of a tree.
"What has happened to me?"
He stretched the stiffness in his body melting away.
For a while he stood there, feeling his muscles uncoiling, enjoying the sense of energy,
of strength and vitality that flowed through him.
"I feel good," he muttered, smiling and reaching to Pat's sniffer's head.
He saw scratches standing further away, eyeing him suspiciously.
"It's all right," he said, beckoning the hound.
"Nothing to fear?"
The hound came to him.
He is still flattened, tail tucked low, and he laughed, ruffling the hound's fur.
"I'm starving."
Memories filtered back.
Of the battle in the swamp against Idana's warband, his desperate escape,
of walking away from Morkant's tower after his interrogation by Rin and her giant Uthas.
Then walking along the riverbank, finding a solitary spot beside a tree
to drink a skin of wine and eat some cold lamb.
He'd scratched at his chin, felt a thick layer of stubble, which felt strange.
"How long have I been here?"
He looked around, at the marshland trees and bushes.
The birds nesting amongst them blue and orange butterflies flitting,
then up at the sky, which was a clear blue.
The spring sun, warm upon his face.
"Somehow everything felt sharper, brighter, and clearer."
"I feel reborn."
He looked down and noticed the shoulder of lamb he'd brought with him from the camp.
The hounds had stripped it clean and cracked the bones.
Beside it with a broken shards of the box he'd found in the bog near Dunterris.
And next to that was a cup, dark metal, runes carved into its rim.
A dribble of wine ran from it.
And he remembered, like a punch in the guts.
A drank from it.
His legs felt weak and he leaned against the tree as he felt for a moment
in echo of the pleasure and pain that erect his body after drinking from the cup.
He felt scared.
"What have I done?"
It is an enchanted cup it has some kind of spell upon it.
But I'm not dead.
If anything I feel more alive than ever before."
He took a tentative step away from the tree, reaching down to pick up the bag of the contained his kit.
For a few heartbeats he stood and stared at the cup, then quickly bent and grabbed it,
stuffing it into his bag.
He picked his way along a twisting trail amongst the tall grass banks of Reed,
eventually coming across a stream that led him back to the river.
The river was full of moored boats, the strong smells of newly-cut pine,
sap and fresh soaked pitch filled the air.
Frames of scaffolding timbers that held half-constructured boats lined the river bank,
skeletal hulls like the bones of flesh-picked whales.
Teams of men were working on them.
Rafe walked past unnoticed,
moving out onto the rolling meadows that spread beyond the marshlands
and ended in the north at the fringes of the Baglin forest.
He stopped here, staring,
surprised at the difference in what felt like only a half day,
but it clearly been longer.
Immediately before him was more tense tower.
Wains pulled by shaggy coated orock,
filed in and out of the tower gates.
On the meadow about it,
the tents of rins' warband of black and gold had multiplied.
To the west, Rafe saw horsemen riding at straw targets,
other men on foot sparring with practice swords and spears.
They are radiating for another stab at a Danavan.
Rafe
More can was striding towards him,
looking striking in his black quirass,
unsabled cloak, etched in gold trim,
hair pulled back,
warrior braid freshly bound with gold wire.
Two guards walked at his back.
He looks far better than the last time I saw him,
in Rins' tent, fresh from the battle,
covered in marsh slime and blood and stinking like a stagnant pool.
Where have you been, boy?
More can't snap to him.
I, uh, over there,
sleeping.
Rafe said,
pointing vaguely at the river and marshes,
sleeping, more can't snorted.
For a ten night?
A ten night.
Before you deserted,
then for you I'd just stomach for any more battle.
I have so.
Rafe said,
braid laying at more can't's veiled insult.
What's your self?
More can't scald.
I'm Lord of Arden now.
I could put your head on a spite with a snap of my fingers.
Rafe felt a blossoming of anger,
hotter and faster than he was used to.
With an effort, he suppressed it.
I thought Ebenez was Lord of Arden.
Ebenez has not returned, is believed dead.
More can't said, disdainfully.
Ryn has appointed me to rule in his absence.
Dead?
In truth, Rafe had lost sight of Ebenez
when the rebels fire had started sinking their boats
and Rafe had become too preoccupied with his own survival
to worry about anyone else.
But he would grieve for Ebenez if he was dead.
He had been his Lord for as long as he could remember.
His dar had served Ebenez as huntsman for many years.
So.
More can't told him, Ardenly.
I am your Lord now and you shall remember it.
Now come with me.
Queen Ryn wishes to speak with you.
He followed more can't around the room of the hill,
skirting the palisaded wall as they made their way through
lines of tents to a central larger one.
Towering like statues, two giants stood outside
alongside a handful of Ryn's shieldmen.
Rafe gazed at them as he waited to be announced.
The giant near as to him was a female.
She stood with folded arms, returning his stare
to knife-hilt as long as short swords crisscrossing her back.
Her brow furrowed as she regarded him.
Queen Ryn will see you now.
A shieldman told them.
And Rafe stepped out of the sunshine into the cool shadow of the tent.
Ryn was sat at a broad table.
Her silver hair braided with golden wire.
A bare skin cloak pulled high about her neck.
A huge parchment was unrolled on the table.
Rafe glanced at it and saw it was a map of the marshlands.
Their position at Morgan's tower marked upon it.
The marshes were largely a blank
with a circle roughly marking the position of Duncan.
Behind Ryn stood Uthas of the Bonothee,
gripping a thick, shafted spear
at about his neck hung a necklace made from long, curved fangs.
Ah, the wanderer returns.
Ryn cried when she saw him.
I thought you did.
Or captured.
She added.
Her eyes narrowing.
Can I trust you now?
Where have you been?
Sleeping.
More can't say it before Rafe could reply.
Who is?
Ryn asked.
No one.
Myself.
Rafe started.
My dogs.
Ryn raised an eyebrow.
No need to be shy.
Everyone needs some time to relax and indulge in their personal pleasures.
That's what he's like for.
But sleeping for a ten-night, a little extreme, don't you think?
And a little unbelievable.
Are you lying to me?
No, my queen.
Rafe mumbled.
Or he drank something.
More can't snorted laughter.
Ryn paused instead at Rafe had cocked him to one side.
Are you well?
You seem different.
Rafe returned her gaze steadily.
His eyes drawn to the details of her face.
The wrinkles creased around her mouth, tracing her tapestry upwards across the arch of her cheeks to cluster around her eyes.
Her skin appeared so fine almost translucent.
His gaze was drawn deeper.
The pulse of myriad veins beneath her diaphanous skin as steady and hypnotic beat.
His gaze drifted higher to her eyes, which were a deep dark blue like still waters.
They transfixed him.
Darts are your queen.
More can't snapped.
Raising his hand to cuff Rafe across the back of her head.
Rafe saw it all as if in slow motion and before he'd even realised what he was doing,
his hand shot up, grabbing more can't wrist and stopping it dead in its tracks.
There was a moment of shocked silence.
Everyone staring at Rafe as more can't tug on his arm, unable to break Rafe's grip.
"Ah, dare you!"
More can't snout.
As he struggled to free himself before reaching for the knife at his belt.
"I'll carve off your bloody fingers one by one."
"Enough!" Ryn said.
More can't froze.
And with a conscious effort, Rafe suppressed a bubbling anger within him and released more can't wrist.
Red marks were already purply into bruises.
"I don't like being struck," Rafe muttered.
"So we can see," Ryn said with a calculating smile.
More can't scowl at him as with us leaned forwards, grey bushy eyebrows bunching together in a frown.
More can't his lord of art and then.
"What have I done?"
"I am sorry," he said quietly.
Then rubbed his eyes.
"I do not know why I did that or what's happening to me."
Ryn exchanged a quick unfathomable look with Uthas before turning back.
"I have need of you so I shall forgive you," this once.
"Thank you, my lady."
Rafe had the sense to dip his head as he spoke, avoiding the urge to glance at more canton's smirk.
"And I am sorry," my queen.
He added for good measure.
Ryn waved a hand.
"Sorry, there's not good enough," she said.
A tone entering her voice that scared Rafe, "I am your queen."
"And you are my subject."
"Learn your place."
"I will," Rafe muttered.
"See that you do," Ryn said.
"And also make sure that the next time I send for you you come, your life is mine."
She stared at him, no hint of expression on her face.
"Now I can make it a good life or an unpleasantly short one."
Rafe gulped.
"Do we understand one another?"
"I," my queen.
Rafe nodded.
"Good."
"Now come over here and help me with this map.
I aim to have a diner's head on a platter within a ten-night."
Chapter 6
Kamlin
Kamlin patted along the stream's edge.
His bow held loosely in one hand.
He was returning to Dunn-Krin from a hunting trip.
Hunting men.
It had been a ten-night since the battle of Dunn-Krin,
where Evanis and Morgan's war band had been largely scattered.
He and a score of others had set about hunting down the stragglers.
The more we kill now, the fewer we'll come back to try and kill us later.
Kamlin had split his hunting party into pairs,
although he himself had ended up in a group of three.
He glanced down at Meg, the band who he had rescued from a village on the outskirts of the marshlands.
Though she's more than paid me back, the time she saved my hide now.
She was walking alongside him,
wearing a warrior's leather jerkin, holding a spear in one hand,
her other resting upon the pommel of a new dagger that was hanging at her belt,
all of them spoils taken from the battle of Dunn-Krin.
Kamlin had helped her cut down and re-stitch the jerkin,
as well as chopping an arm's length of the spear to make it more manageable for her.
Part of him had been concerned about her accompanying him.
She seemed worse, though.
A memory of the mottled feet of a band swinging from gallows,
insinuated its way into his mind, beneath it bloated corpses littering a courtyard.
Much worse.
A shadow crossed his path,
and he looked up to see the third member of his party flying above him.
Craft swooped down and squorked loudly.
Dark waters?
Tall towers?
I know.
Kamlin muttered.
So I'll need a bird to tell me when I'm close to home.
Nevertheless, he raised a hand at Craft.
When I first met that bird,
I must confess I didn't like him much.
Turns out he's right-handy to have a bow, though.
Craft had led him straight to over a dozen enemy warriors lost in the marshes.
Kamlin had made sure they stayed lost,
left them lying face down in the mud.
He walked through a last bank of reeds
and came out on the shore of a huge lake.
The towers and walls of Duncan reared out of the lake's waters,
damp and moss-covered like some frozen Leviathan.
Figures moved on the battleman walls, boats scuddling between towers.
All about him on the lake sure there was motion.
The wives and bands of the warriors who had fought in the battle of Duncan had finally returned
from their hiding place deeper in the marshes,
and all manner of rough shelters were being erected,
mostly consisting of linen tents and panelled walls of woven willow.
Best not make themselves too comfortable.
Meg dashed off and merged into the crowds.
Kamlin watched as a pair of children rummaged amongst the piles of war gear
that have been stripped from the dead and heaped in mounds along the lake sure.
Great stacks of swords and spears, shields, boots, belts, knives, quivers,
shirts of mail, courasses of boiled leather and cloaks of black and gold.
Meg reappeared at his side.
Now with an iron helmet much too big for her head added to her outfit.
Kamlin tried not to laugh but wasn't wholly successful.
What?
Meg scalded him.
"Think that helmet might slow you down?" he said.
"Besides, your head's thick enough.
Doubt if you'll need it."
She punched him in the leg.
"When are we leaving?" she asked.
"Don't know." he shrugged.
Probably talk about it a while before we get around to doing this.
He paused as the crowds opened up before him.
Yidana was walking calmly through their midst, stopping down again to address
someone directly, holding a hand here, cupping a cheek there,
always seeming to be interested in what was being said to her.
Baird, the one-eyed warrior of Darwin, and Von, accompanied her.
Kamlin frowned as he watched the young warrior, his eye shadowed with dark circles, grief,
carving new lines upon his face.
"No, I'd guess I'm partly to blame for that."
Me having killed his dar might have something to do with his current mood.
He tracked Von after the battle, found him leagues from anywhere, alone apart from his dar.
Everness.
Kamlin had watched as they'd argued.
He'd had ended with Von turning his back on Everness and walking away.
Everness had followed, hand dipping inside his cloaking, coming out with a knife for his fist.
Kamlin had put two arrows through the man's chest.
His eyes flicked back to Adana.
She has grown since that night in Dunkari, when she saw her dar murdered.
Even fought Roshin of Darwin in the court of swords and one.
Mind, exile was too good for a woman like that.
She'll never stop her trouble-making.
He searched behind Adana, looking for his friend, Halion.
He should be back by now.
Then he saw him sitting beside a fire with Lorcan, Halion's half-brother, Roshin's son,
heir to the throne of Darwin, and unofficially betrothed at Adana, with his shieldman,
broken no-neck as Meg affectionately referred to him.
"Good to see you," Halion said.
Rising and gripping Kamlin's forearm.
"You too," Kamlin said with a grin.
Kamlin looked at their faces, saw they were all somber, attention in the air.
Lorcan's dark eyes were red, looked as if he'd been weeping.
"Am I into Robson?" Kamlin asked.
"Just tell me to bugger off if I am."
"No, Kamlin," Lorcan said, standing and surreptitiously wiping his eyes.
Like it was just going.
He bathe him farewell, Halion squeezing his shoulder and left.
Brogan followed faithfully in his wake.
"He are eight," Kamlin asked.
"No," Halion said honestly.
"But I think he will be."
I know Connell hates him just for being Russian son, but I like him.
There's no malice in him.
"Well, that's a rare thing," Kamlin observed.
And he did the right thing with Russian.
Choosing Adana over his mum wasn't easy.
"True," Kamlin said.
"Some times that I think could be a grim thing too."
"I, and it's weighing heavy on him, and you, by the look of it."
Halion looked tired, a strained look about his eyes.
Chopped on, then.
Kamlin asked Halion.
"Hi," Halion breathed.
Got back yesterday.
Did it go?"
He was going to say well, but that didn't seem like the right word.
Halion looked away, staring out into the marshland.
"Rushing didn't try to escape, if that's what you mean."
"That's something," Kamlin said.
"I," Halion shrugged.
"Not the easiest thing I've done," he added.
As Kamlin continued to stare at him.
"Thought you hated Russian."
"I do."
She murdered my mum, wanted to kill me, and Connell was the reason we fled down.
And she would have murdered Adana too.
Exile is better than she deserves.
"But," Halion shrugged.
His sea gray eyes hinting at the emotion he kept buried within.
Walking away was hard.
Execution is hard, you mean.
We called it exile, but leaving her in the middle of the marsh.
It was a death sentence.
Kamlin patted, Halion shoulder.
Good hunting?"
Halion asked him.
"I."
There are few less warriors in black and gold to tell the way to this place.
"Am I the fair's back?"
"No, you're the last," Halion said.
"But we'll be waiting on you."
Adana refused to hold the council until you were back safe and sound.
Kamlin felt himself blush at that, a smile, twitching his lips.
It felt strange to be valued.
Kamlin looked around the circle of familiar faces.
They were gathered in a clearing, amidst the ruins of what looked
to have once been done Cron's gatehouse.
A collapsed tower arose above them, birds nests poking from its crumbled ramparts.
The old wall lay in ruins, granite boulders scattered in the grass.
Beneath their feet, ancient flagstones lay twisted and shattered by the encroaching roots of willow and older.
A crumbling archway framed Adana, who sat upon a moss-covered boulder.
She looked at home in a coat of mail and boiled leather circles, a great cloak about her shoulders and a sword at her hip.
Surrounding her were though she trusted most closely.
Pindathrin, her barrel-chested uncle.
And trust, the red-haired warrior from Navon once shielded to Owen, Navon's fallen king.
Lornkin, the young king in exile of Darwin, gaze solemnly at Adana.
The others that filled the area were mostly warriors, shieldmen to those present.
Halion, von, and one-eyed bed, watching Adana.
Close to them, broken, loomed, protectively close to Lornkin.
Craft perched upon the broken archway above Adana like a carved statue.
And I've no doubt that Meg is eavesdropping somewhere close by.
Adana stood, and the quiet conversations that had whispered amongst the ruined walls hushed.
"We are leaving down Kryn," she said, without any preamble.
Above her, Craft ruffled his feathers.
Leaving, he caught quietly.
"Our warriors' kin have only just returned," trust objected.
Not even dried their feet.
And this is a good defensible spot.
There were rumbles of ascent.
After our victory they don't want to leave, I've seen it before.
The victory makes them feel secure.
But our enemies know full, rins as canny as they come.
We'll not defeat her here again.
And he had said as much to Adana.
"I agree," Adana said.
"We won the last skirmish."
Ryn and her battle chiefs underestimated us, and did not scout well enough.
But they will not repeat that mistake, and they will be back.
We faced over 500 swords, put more than 300 in their cans, but however many we slew some escaped.
They know where we are, and they will report back to Ryn.
Next time they will be cautious, and Ryn rules four realms now.
She has the numbers to keep throwing warriors at us until we are overwhelmed.
And after in nodded Dowley in agreement.
But where else is there?
There are one or two other spots in these marshes, just said.
Not as good as here, but still.
We need to change our tactics.
Only the families are staying in the marshes, you're done or interrupted.
Now I'm leading the warband out into Arden.
Arden, Kraftmotted above Adana.
He didn't look pleased, the feathers of his neck suddenly bristling.
What?
Pindaphragm blurted.
Now that is.
He paused face turning redder as he made an obvious effort to master his tongue.
But why?
We cannot win the war, hiding in these marshes.
If Ryn is to be defeated, and Arden, Narvan and Dowan set free, then we must take the battle to her.
We must become an enemy she fears.
Winning one battle does not decide the war, dress said.
You've done well, but we could lead Ryn a merry dance around these marshes.
I know full well that the war is not one.
Adana said, her voice abruptly cold.
Do not patronise me.
I am not a ban, and I am no stranger to loss and hardship.
She looks around at them all.
Each night I close my eyes.
Each day I awake I see the same thing.
My dead kin, my friends cut down my home, burning my people.
Who cares for them while we are here?
Never forget what Ryn has taken from us.
It is time we took something back.
Time we took the battle to her.
Just snorted.
We cannot face Ryn in open battle.
Pindaphragm growled.
Of course not, Adana said.
We are to few in numbers, less than 200 swords, but we can use that to our advantage.
We can move quickly, strike fast, disappear, strike elsewhere.
Show Ryn and the people of Arden that we have teeth.
Pindaphragm nodded, obviously considering it.
"That lonely last so long," he said.
Indeed, Adana said.
Which is why the word needs the spread that Ryn has lost a great battle that her
regent evidence is dead.
Her eyes flitted to Von and she took a deep breath.
"That the rightful queen of Arden has returned.
The people need to know.
They have not been forgotten.
I know them.
They will join us if we offer them hope."
Pindaphragm glanced at Rost.
They shared alongside us than Rost nodded grimly.
"When did the girly I used to bounce upon my knee become this daring battle chief I see before me?"
Pindaphragm said.
Adana just smiled.
Though her eyes flicked in acknowledgement to Kamlin and Halion, who had had long conversations with her, discussing the options.
Though to be fair, much of this plan came from her.
There was a flapping of wings and craft glided down to a light on the rock beside Adana.
"Drassil?" he croaked.
"I am afraid we are not going to dress ill."
Adana said solemnly to the crow.
"Rung.
Rung.
Rung."
Kraft called.
Flapping his wings vehemently muttering.
"God wall.
Seven treasures.
Brina.
Corbin."
Over and over.
"We are needed here, Kraft."
Adana said, reaching out to hand tentatively to touch the crow's ruffled feathers.
He looked at her then with a disgusted squawk flapped into the air and soared away.
Adana watched him for a few moments a dark smudge that faded quickly.
Kamlin followed Adana from the clearing.
The sun was dipping behind the trees.
A smell of cooking from a lake shore wafting over made Kamlin's belly grumble.
"What are you planning on doing with the plunder on the lake shore?" he asked Adana, as he drew up alongside her.
"Taking what we need, dumping the rest in the lake so that Rin can't use it," Adana replied.
"Make sure you keep the cloaks of black and gold," Kamlin said.
"Think they might come in handy."
"I had thought exactly the same thing," Adana said with a vicious smile.
"My lady," Adana said behind them.
"It was Von, his expression pensive.
They halted to let him catch up."
"Crap," the things he said.
"I miss our friends as much as he does."
Adana sighed impatiently, interrupting.
"Corbin, Brenner, Daff, Gar, the others."
She felt silent.
Eyes distant.
"But much as I long to see them all again, I cannot dash off on a fool's errand to dress ill."
The journey alone would take half a year, and I have a duty to my people
"You miss understand me," Von said.
"It is the other things," he said about the God-war, the Batrassal and he took a deep breath.
"I need to talk to you about what my father told me before he died."
"About what?" he Danner said.
"About seven treasures," Von said quietly.
"I think I know where one of them is."
Chapter 7
Coraline
Coraline crouched beside Brenner, and watched the healer run her hands over Storm's torso.
The Wolfen had closed her eyes again, her breathing so shallow that she appeared dead,
but as Brenner's fingers probed Storm's ribs, there was a faint growl and the flash of teeth.
A storm called a lip.
"That hurts, then?"
Brenner murmured.
"Sorry, madarlin," she soothed.
Fingers lifting a lip to look at the color of Storm's dums, opening an eyelid,
lifting legs and bending them at the joints.
"It must be bad."
Brenner never calls anyone "my darling," even if they've lost body parts.
Coraline looked up, hearing voices from beyond the ridge.
"Gah," organizing a search of the area.
While desperate to go and help continue the search for Corbin, worried that the others might miss something,
she still couldn't bear to leave Storm's side.
"Can you help her?"
Coraline whispered.
Brenner ignored her.
Eventually she paused, sat straight, her head bowed in thought.
She blew out a long breath and nodded, then with a quick movement she pulled out the file Coraline had seen her scrape giants blood into.
She scooped out some of the congealing blood and muttered as she lifted Storm's lip and ran her finger across Storm's lulling tongue.
"Fueil, novet, turt, schlant, ergus niet."
She repeated the phrase again and again, gently massaging Storm's throat to help her swallow.
The air seems to grow chill about them and Coraline shivered, feeling as if a spider had just crawled the length of her spine.
Eventually, Storm shuddered, a spasm that rippled through her whole body.
Coraline was not sure if it was wishful thinking, but the woven breathing seemed to become stronger, steadier.
Brenner stopped and looked at Coraline.
"What have you done?"
Coraline whispered.
"Not a word to anyone," Brenner hissed fiercely.
Eyes locking onto Coraline's.
"Without it, she is dead, she is too far gone, even now I cannot say."
Guard dropped down beside them, his usually emotional as face twisted with concern.
"Well," he said, looking between Brenner and the Wolfen.
Brenner held Coraline's eyes still, waiting.
Coraline gave an imperceptible nod and then Brenner sighed and shook her head.
"I don't know."
"She is battered," ribs broken, one lung punctured and collapsed.
"There is a hole through her shoulder and into her chest the size of my fist.
If none of these things ends are still the loss of blood might," she shrugged.
"Her spirit's strong."
"None stronger," Gar said.
"I, that may give her a chance," Brenner said.
"Can she be moved?"
Gar asked.
"No."
Elle said a guard.
"Coraline, I need your eyes in the search for Corbin."
Coraline nodded.
She brushed her fingertips across Storm's muzzle, shared a lingering look with Brenner,
and then she was hauling herself up the ridge.
Coraline stood staring at the corpse of the great bear for a moment speechless.
It was huge, swiced the height of a horse in three times as wide.
The bear was a patchwork of wounds.
A great flap of flesh hung loose above its shoulder more a tear than a cut.
Half the length of its side had been opened with what looked like a sword cut.
Ribs shattered and flakes of white bones sprinkled amongst the red ruin.
"Coraline," Coraline said, as she pointed to the sword wound in the bear's side.
"That's not what killed it," Farrell said, pointing away from the gaping slash in the bear's
side.
"That is."
The bear's throat had been opened.
The flesh lacerated and hanging.
They'd all seen that type of wound before.
"Storm," Gar said.
"This is where we found them," Pac said.
His voice roar with grief.
"Where does speed the giants?"
"Describe this giant," Gar said.
"For head, the colour of fresh straw, a warhammer," he looked.
"Reecal," in charge.
And he was talking to Corbin.
"Could it be?"
Ildere, late said.
Coraline felt a pulse of anger at the name saw Gar stiffen.
Ildere was the warlord of the jutten.
He had slain Tuckle.
Gar's father at Graham's hold and broken Gar's ribs when he had tried to avenge his
dars death.
The ground showed the signs of more bears, at least another four, maybe more, as well as
other giants on foot.
Tracks led northwards into the forest away from Drazil.
Ildere and the jutten had fought alongside JL of Isletir, who in turn was allied to
Nefair, so the logical conclusion was that the jutten would have taken Corbin to Drazil,
who would have joined the battle.
But their tracks headed north.
"Where are they going?"
Coraline asked.
Dath moved first, breaking the spell the dead bear had put upon them.
"Don't know, but we won't find them or a ban by standing here," he said.
"When did this happen?"
Gar asked.
"Yesterday, after high sun," Pax replied.
"We've seen no sign of a camp," Coraline said.
"You cook fires," Noah slept upon, little spore.
"My guess," is that he set off after capturing Corbin, so there must have been enough
light to make a good start.
"If we follow their trail, see how much ground they covered before making camp, we'll get
a better idea of how far ahead of us they are."
Gar granted an agreement, and together they moved up a steep slope, entering an area
of dense vegetation.
The hill levelled out and opened up, sunshine breaking through the canopy above.
It was past high sun, the day beginning its slow crawl towards night.
To the south, Coraline could see Drazil, pillars of smoke spiraling from it.
She looked back to the hills she was standing on, at the bear and giant tracks that led down
the hill north away from Drazil.
The sound of movement drew Coraline's attention, a rustling.
Immediately her sword was in her fist and she was seeking cover the others following suit,
Daph, with an arrow knocked.
Laith pulled one of her throwing knives as big as a sword from the leather belt strapped
across her chest.
Gar signaled to the Gehar before and behind them, and then they waited.
Beyond the peak of the hill, the forest was shrouded in shadow, hindering Coraline's vision,
but the crunch of forest litter and approaching Russell amongst the foliage spoke of many feet.
The figure appeared, crouched, moving carefully, dark shadows taking form behind it.
Iron glinted.
Then Gar was stepping from behind a tree, sheathing his sword and striding down the hill.
"Well, Matt," he said to her here.
The shieldman of Halen, boy king of Isilthir.
The warrior gave a lopsided grin of relief and took Gar's forearm in the warrior grip.
He was not overly tall but was broad and thick muscled his arms looking too long for his body.
Dark hollows wringed his eyes, and there was a long tear across the shoulder of his chain-mail shirt, blood caked around it.
"Be looking for you," Tahir said.
"And you found us," Gar said.
"How do you know what's a search?"
"One of my lads saw my cow defending the door to the northern tunnel.
You don't defend the door for nothing."
We retreated out of the main gate, made it to the forest and started circling this way.
More men appeared behind him, forty-fifty, others hidden in the forest gloom,
most wearing the red cloaks of Isilthir.
Taken us all night and half the day, Forest was crawling with kadoshim and Vinthalan.
Think we've taught them to fear the forest better though.
A rumble of agreement spread through the warriors behind him.
"Where's Halen?" Gar asked, and to hear his face dropped.
"I don't know. I tried to find him."
To hear his mouth twisted with something between pain and shame.
"He's a resourceful lad," Gar said.
"I'd wager he's found a hole to hide in."
"I hope so."
To hear replied a tremor in his voice.
"How many were you?"
Gar asked him.
Hundred and forty-six swords that can fight.
To hear said, another dozen wounded.
"If done well, saving so many," Gar said.
"I, well, slow and steady wins the race as my old man used to say."
To hear looked around.
"Where's Corbin?"
"Taken by the jot on. We have just found his trail."
To hear scald and spat.
"Chayance," he muttered.
Then looked back to Gar.
"So, what do we do now?"
Gar looked at him and blinked.
With Corbin and Mike Algon, Gar is our natural leader now.
And not just for us, but for all who fought it dressill.
He is Lord of the Gia and Corbin's first sword.
All Corbin wanted to do was find Corbin,
but with survivors scattered throughout the forest,
Gar had more to consider.
"I am going after Corbin," Gar said,
and turned away to stare at the trail that led northwards.
To hear gripped his arm.
"What about us?"
He asked.
"You and your warriors will rest a while.
Think, eat, tent your wounds!"
"I don't just mean us," to hear said,
waving a hand at his men.
"I mean, the war band of dresser.
Many still live, can you not hear them still fighting?
For Corbin, you cannot just abandon them."
Gar stared at him, face twitching.
Corbin crouched beside the burned-out fire
and brushed the ash with her fingers.
It was cold.
Not even the memory of heat lingering within it.
She glanced up.
Saw a daff at the edge of shadow poking at a mound of bear-dung.
It was sunset.
The forest was slipping into layers of shadow.
After talking with Tahir,
Gar had sent out scouts to see if the survivors of dresser could be brought together.
Corbin had left with a daffon collar to find the giant's camp.
She sprang up and ran from the site,
easily following the path the giants had left.
They are overly confident
in making no effort to hide their passage.
They would not think that we were hunting them.
If any I could reach them,
it may be possible to steal Corbin back in the darkness.
It's too dark.
We'll lose their trail.
Daff called after her, but she ignored him.
Just ran on into the forest,
following the tracks up a steep incline.
She climbed it and stopped.
Kicking at a moss-covered stone,
her heart sinking as she realised the implications of what she could see.
The old giants rode.
She said to Daffon collar as they joined her.
It had been rebuilt by Jale's wall band.
And they're moving fast.
I...cola said.
Wherever they're going,
they want to get there quickly,
and are not worried about any pursuit.
Probably think we're all a bit busy with the fair and dry.
If he looked at Corlin.
How far ahead do you think they are?
A day.
Corlin grunted.
If they stick to that ruined road,
maybe ten, twelve leagues.
When I catch them this night,
then Corlin sucked in an old breath.
No, she growled.
What do you want to do?
Daffon asked her.
I want to keep running.
Keep moving until we find them.
Find him.
But there would be no quick rescue now.
They would be fortunate to catch them in the half-a-ten night.
Probably longer if their bears have an open run.
Back to Gar, she said.
They had made it back to camping good time.
Considering they were travelling almost blind,
the moonlight little more than a shimmer above the forest canopy.
Warriors were everywhere.
Clusted around small fires that had been surrounded by wicker panels,
the height of their glow.
Corlin saw Gar standing beside a larger fire with a group around him.
To hear was there as well as others whom she was pleased to see.
Wolf in his bear pelts, her notched axe resting across his shoulder.
Javed, the pit fighter, small and wiry,
a giant outline behind them.
Gar saw her enter the glade and the eyes met.
Corlin nodded.
Signaling that she'd found the giant's camp.
"Wish her strike, attack Darasil now," Javed said.
"They'd not be expecting that.
They've enthalen her in there."
There was a barely contained rage edging his voice.
"Likeus is there.
The man who gave me this."
He twisted to show the scar burned into the back of his shoulder,
a twisting spiral.
"He and his kind did this and worse to many of us," Javed said.
"Waving her hand at his warriors.
Angry murmurs spread amongst them.
"Kiekostone in anger, you'll hurt your foot," Taya said.
Javed just stared at him.
The giant behind them laughed at low rumbling like drums.
"Just something my old man used to say," Taya muttered.
"And what the hell does it mean?" Javed scowled.
"That acting from anger will get you killed," Gar said.
"Anga is the enemy."
He turned to the group close to him.
"Fakken of the Banofi," Gar continued.
"What would your clan advise?"
The giant stepped forwards into the fire light,
a double-bladed axe silhouetted across his shoulder.
"Bala, one eye is wounded on the edge of life and death.
"Ethlin will not leave him.
We will not fight without her."
Gar nodded thoughtfully.
"How many of your kin are with you?"
"Burscore."
"Babs more are scattered in fawn," the giant shrugged.
"I will send Brina with you when you return to them."
"Good."
"Ethlin, bad me, ask for her."
"We cannot just do nothing," Javed snapped.
"I do not intend to do nothing," Gar said.
Other voices joined in, each proposing a different way forward attacks, ambushes, strategies.
This could go on all night.
Coraline slipped across the glade, moving beyond the small council to the side of the glade.
A makeshift rope ladder hung over the edge, another fire flickering below by the river's bank.
Coraline climbed nimbly down to find Brina with storm.
The pharaoh was there, too, sitting with his back to the slope, eyes closed,
a big hand resting upon storm's shoulder.
"How is she?"
Coraline asked.
Brina looked at her with sad eyes, tears glittering in the fire light.
"I fear she will not win this fight," the healer said.
Coraline's heart lurched in her chest.
"But she used magic," said a spell.
"But what you did?"
"It has helped," Brina said, giving her strength, but her wounds."
She looked at pharaoh, then lowered her voice to little more than a whisper.
"And I used giant's blood, another wolf and or something closer to her own species would have more power."
"There is a dead bear, half a league from here?"
Coraline said.
"One of those that jot and giants ride."
Brina reached into her cloak and removed an empty file.
"Feel this with its blood," she said, taking Coraline's hand and closing her fingers about it.
"She glanced at storm, at the wolf and shallow breathing, and be quick about it."
Coraline was.
Most of the camp was sleeping when she returned from her gristy task.
Gar and the other leaders were still in deep conversation.
Brina was alone with storm, the small fire crackling, casting shadows across the healer and wolfen.
Without a word, Brina took the file, and massaged the fluid into storm's gums and tongue.
"Fuel, novet, alert, ashland, the Argus n'yat," Brina muttered, over and over, her voice sounding like a stick scratching on slate.
Coraline's flesh goosebumped.
The fire seemed to dim and then flare, a twig popped.
The wolf instead, lifting her head to regard Brina with her amber wolf and eyes.
"Come back to us," Brina whispered.
"Corbin needs you."
Storm's legs twitched and she gave a weak rumbling growl, then with a sigh, she laid her head back on the turf.
"Thank you," Brina said to Coraline, looking weary.
Dirt skitted about them, and daff, color and leaf appeared out of the darkness, waking feral.
"How is she?"
Daff asked.
"A little strong, Gar," Brina said.
"We'll take it in turns to watch over her," Farrell said.
"Even you must need to sleep."
"Well, for once you may be right," Brina muttered.
She curled down beside the fire, pulling her cloak over her head.
"Wake me if there is any change, and no going to sleep on watch."
A bony finger poked out of the cloak and wagged at them all.
Within moments, Brina's breathing changed, became slower and deeper.
"So?"
Daff whispered to Coraline once they were all sure that Brina was soundly asleep.
"When do we leave?"
"What do you mean?"
Coraline asked.
"He'll be going after Coraline.
Where, Coraline, too?"
Coraline had decided to leave a little before first light to slip away before the camp woke
and started asking her questions.
She needed to use every moment of daylight possible.
Perhaps, leave a message for Gar.
It was clear that he was needed here, that his duties would force him to stay and oversee
the fight against the fair.
"You can't come," Coraline said.
"Farrel and Laith will be too noisy, too slow."
Farrel leaned forwards.
"Bands, my friend.
More than that, closer than kin.
I'm going after him with you or without you."
He shrugged.
"I'd rather be traveled together, but I'll not be staying here."
Coraline looked at them all, saw the resolve in their eyes.
"All right then," she said, "before dawn."
"Morning came grey and damp, false dawn giving a half light that helped Coraline to see beyond
the fireglow that kept crackling all night to give storm a little warmth."
Farrel, daff, color, and Laith had all stayed, taking it in terms to watch over storm.
"Now, silently, they all stood, checked weapons and packs."
"I would come with you if not for storm," Brynn said, as she stirred within her cloak.
"We know," Coraline answered.
"Brenner checked on the sleeping wolfen.
Her heart beat stronger," she said.
"That is good news," Coraline grinned.
She crouched beside the wolfen and ran her fingers through the thick fur of her neck,
then leaned forwards and kissed Storm's head.
"I'll be back with Corbin," she whispered.
"Bring him back," Brynn said, watching them leave.
"I mean to, or die in the trying."
The camp in the glade above was still in silence.
Coraline and the others picked their way through the sleeping figures.
As they slipped amongst the trees, a figure stepped out in front of them.
"Yeah."
He had a pack slung across his back, a grim look upon his face.
He nodded as he looked fiercely at the small gathering.
"Good.
Let's be after him then."
"We thought you were needed here that you would have to stay," Coraline said.
He gave her a withering look.
"Only death would stop me going after Ban."
Chapter 8 Corbin
Corbin woke to pain.
He opened his eyes, stared up at a dappled canopy of leaf and branch, gray lights leaking through
it.
It was passing him by like clouds scuddling across the sky.
"No, not the trees.
It is eye that I'm moving.
And I am in form," he realized, still in form.
He felt relief at that.
Being in form was not such a bad thing.
He liked the forest, and it also meant that he was not a thousand leaks from Drassal
and his friends if any of them had survived.
But the constant rocking, bumping motion wasn't such a good thing, making his chest spiked
with pain, and exacerbating the deep, dull throb in his knee, pulsing out in time with
his heartbeat.
Also, there was a terrible stink in his nose musky and stale, making him want a gag.
Time passed in something of a haze.
His mind drifted and he thought to the other world, it was meeting with my cow.
He used me.
Manipulated me lied to me.
But his words had also wronged through he needed to find his friends to be at their side.
"How?"
"That is the question."
When I am broken and battered, a prisoner travelling early on knows where.
He moved his head slowly from side to side, saw that he was on a makeshift litter that
was being dragged through the forest.
Behind him, a huge figure loomed, thick with fur, a black snout and muzzle yellow teeth
edging its jaw.
A bear.
One of the jutton's bears.
Their face reared over him, pale and blonde haired, a long braided moustars drooping
down almost a Corbin's face.
Corbin recognised him as one of the giants that had dragged him away from storm.
"I'll kill you," Corbin hissed, instinctively reaching for his sword.
When his fingers reached the empty scabbard, he remembered that he'd left it in the body of a giant.
Back in the glade where he instalmed Ford and slain three of this giant's kin.
The giant's eyes watched Corbin's gasping breathlessness and grunted.
"You'll not be killing any more of us jutton today," the giant said in stilted speech.
"But I like your spirit," he chuckled.
"There's fire in this pub's belly yet."
"Hala," he called over his shoulder.
"Seems you'll make a healer after all."
"I've been one for four hundred years," he reared.
A voice called back.
The giant looked back at Corbin and checked the binding of his leg splint, sending jolts
of pain through Corbin.
"Don't go dying on us," the giant said.
"Another giant face appeared beside this one, red-haired and glowering.
"Here, no's wolf and killed her on, a row of fun lot," it rumbled.
Reaching round with the ham the size of a shovel and cuffed in Corbin across the head.
Just the blow was painful enough, but the fire it ignited in Corbin's chest was like a hammer strike,
and he screamed, the world fading to darkness.
The last sound he heard was giant voices yelling at each other.
"Drink this," a voice said.
Something was shoved into his hand a bowl, and to his surprise he found that he was propped up
against the trunk of a tree, a rope tying him to the wide bowl.
Not that I can get up and run away.
Two giants were crouched before him, both of them cloaked in a twilight gloom of form.
One of them was the blonde giant he talked to earlier.
Beyond them, he heard the familiar sound of camp making, shadowy figures moving at the edge of his sight.
"Drink," the voice said, a huge hand wrapping around his, and lifting the bowl to his lips.
Corbin sniffed it, wrinkling his nose at the familiar earthly smell.
"Brut," he muttered.
"You know Brut," the voice said in surprise.
Corbin looked into the gloom and saw that one of the dark figures before him was a woman.
Her face slabs of bone highlighted by the dim gleam of moonlight.
"I," Corbin mumbled.
These sniffed suspiciously at the bowl.
"Go on," the voice said.
"If we wanted to kill you, you'd be dead already."
"That's a fair point."
"My haven't they killed me."
He took a sip.
The brut's closer to porridge in consistency than fluid.
After swallowing, he felt an aftertaste, something bitter.
"It's not the same," Corbin said.
"As what?"
"As what baller gave me?"
"There was a pause."
"The giant shared a look."
"Baller, one eye," the blonde-haired male asked.
"I," Corbin said.
"Something else in this."
"Golden seal."
"Another silence."
"I," the female giant said.
"She or my sounded pleased."
"Golden seal to fight infection," Corbin always said.
"The worse it tastes, the better it is for you."
"And ever quite believe that bit."
Another figure loomed out of the shadows.
"Borgar," the giant rumbled, and his captors parted to let this one crouch down before
Corbin.
"Adrum," the new arrival said.
An a moment later, Corbin heard flint being struck, sparks catching on a torch and light
flared.
Corbin blinked.
"Look to a moment."
"Look," had me.
The new voice said, a grating rumble stern and grim.
A hand gripped Corbin's face and lifted his chin.
He was looking at another blonde giant, a thick warrior braiding his hair, threaded
with red gold wire.
This one had a wide bandage wrapped around his shoulder and chest, a dark stain at its
center.
"You are ill there, King of the Jotun," Corbin said.
"Wallord, not king," ill there, murmured.
"verse, who are you?"
"Why am I still breathing?"
Corbin asked.
"A slew your bear, three of your kin in the glade."
"With a lot of help from storm.
Why would you keep me alive?"
"You do not question me."
Ill there said.
Then with one thick finger, prodig Corbin in his ribs.
Corbin suppressed a scream.
It came out as a gurgled hiss.
Ill there's hand brushed over Corbin's torn circleed, rested on the sigil of the bright
star stitched upon his chest, felt his male shirt rolling links between his fingers.
He grunted approvingly, then moved onto Corbin's armring, wrapped around his bicep.
It had been gifted to him and Drassel.
A spiral of dark iron vane with a silver thread, a snarling wolf and head at each end.
It was a thing of beauty.
More so, because it reminded Corbin of the night back in Drassel, when the whole of the
warband had pledged their loyalty to him and he had sworn his oath to them in return.
He felt a lump rise in his throat and blinked away tears.
"Who are you?"
Ill there asked him again.
"No one," Corbin grunted, feeling a surge of bitter despair at that admission.
Certainly not the bright star everyone believed I was.
I even came to believe it.
I am the greatest of fools.
That is who I am.
There is giant skill in this."
Ill there observed, fingers running over the spiral of the armring.
At Graham's old warriors stood about you.
You commanded and others listened, and yesterday men came to save you.
He moved closer, face almost touching Corbin's his small dark eye staring.
I do not think you are no one.
Start with your name.
Tell me that.
Corbin clamped his lips together.
I could hurt you.
Ill there said, matter of factly, hand opening and resting lightly upon Corbin's injured
knee.
Corbin sucked in a breath but said nothing.
"Your name," Ill there said, flexing his fingers.
According to something, Corbin said, as comedies he could manage.
Ill there stared at him a long, sweat-filled moment.
Then a smile cracked the slabs of the giant's face his mustache twitching.
You have stones, little man.
I'll give you that.
Bargaining with me at a time like this, very well, something for something.
Now, what is your name?
I am Corbin Ben Thannen, Corbin said, lifting his chin high.
That is who I am, my father's son no more no less.
At that moment he had never missed his darmore fiercely nor felt so proud of his memory.
Ill there nodded thoughtfully, as if he were turning the name over in his mind.
"All right, then," the giant finally said, ask your question.
"Where are you taking me?" Corbin asked, away from Drassel and his cursed forest.
Ill there said, looking up at the shifting shadows in impenetrable trees around them.
Where?
Corbin repeated, "A place you know well enough.
We are going to Graham's hold."
Chapter 9 Fidale.
Fidale walked the lines of their camp, nodding to guards, offering a word of encouragement
here and there.
Trees loomed towering colossi that transformed daylight into perpetual twilight.
Within this shadowed world, the warband of ripper camped, close to a thousand men, five
hundred leagues from home.
They must wonder why they are here so far from home, caught up in a war they hardly
understand, a war that I barely understand.
What she did know, though, was that her son was at the heart of it, in a fair.
At the thought of him a tide of emotions swept through her, shock.
His allied to the kadashim, my own son, how could he choose to be part of such a great evil?
The anger, that he had not chosen differently that he had not stood for what was right.
His naive, has trusted, flattering words and deceptive tongues and walked the wrong path.
Betrayal, that he had chosen Caledas over her, a point made so clear during her trial.
Regret, that she had not seen the course he was treading earlier and done something to
help him while there had still been time.
Sadness.
No, something far deeper than that, more akin to grief.
It almost felt as if he had died, that she had lost him forever.
Not forever, there is still hope for him, there must be.
Hatred.
For Caledas, the catalyst and centre of her fury, a kadashim demon made flesh, his will
set on corrupting the fair and bending him to his purposes.
Traded between and amongst all those emotions was one more.
Love.
A mother's love for her son, built upon the vulnerable child she had nursed at her breast,
whom she had nurtured and protected.
A fierce love that had always seen the best in him, that believed in his ability, his
strength and intellect believed in him.
A love that still fueled a hope that he would eventually see the wrong he had done, that
he would turn back from a dark path he was being led down.
At the perimeter of their camp, two guards with the eagle of Tannabral upon their breastplate
saluted her.
Men always stood together in this forest, never alone.
The creatures of form were better defended against that way.
If he delay stood and stared out into the shadows of the forest, Muemas leave, a voice
said beside her, making her jump.
Albin, the white haired healer, had followed her, his footsteps a little more than
a whisper upon the forest floor.
A bandage was wrapped around the wound between his shoulder and chest that the traitorous
Ecter had given in the dungeons beneath Briccan.
Quiet shy Ecter, rather to crevice in veridus, more accustomed to holding a scroll than
a sword.
And yet, he had betrayed them and slain one of her most trusted companions, paratus.
It had been little more than a ten night ago and her grief was still fresh, but Albin
seemed to have recovered well.
He is a remarkable man, and a mysterious one, a warrior and a healer both but so much more
than that, friend to my cow, part of a secret group that has been waiting for these days
preparing.
"Uemas leave," Albin repeated, "Time is against us."
"No," she replied, an automatic response.
She drew in a long breath composing herself.
This wall band will not just march away from crellis, they are men of ripper.
"They'll do what you order them to do," Albin said quietly, "you are their queen."
"I don't want to be queen."
"So many years I put duty first," she looked at Albin, saw him studying her face.
"He knows why I do not wish to leave."
"I'll not leave," without McIn.
The warrior's face filled her mind, beaten and scarred, proud, fierce.
She felt her spirits lift at the thought of him, remembered sitting at his side in the
tower at ripper when he had opened his eyes after lying on the brink of death for so long.
She had told her that he'd stood upon the bridge of swords that one of the Ben-Elem had given
him a choice.
To cross over, or go back, he'd told her.
"Why did you come back then?" she'd asked him.
Three reasons.
Three people.
"Jail, like us, you."
He had paused and looked up into her eyes.
Two for vengeance.
One for love.
Her lips twitched in a smile at the memory of it.
Albin's eyes creased with worry in perhaps compassion.
"You'll lose this war, for one man."
So many answers flashed through her mind, most of them convincing in their own right, but
she knew they were not the truth.
"It will not come to that," she snapped.
Albin frowned.
"You can't all choose one man, over a nation," he said.
Some more than that, her whole of the banish lands.
We are in the God-war.
We cannot just walk away from this.
It will consume the banish lands, and when it is done, those who stand against us rough
will either be victorious, or they will be dead.
There is nothing in between.
It is war.
Sacrifices must be made.
"I am familiar with sacrifice," she said coldly, "but I'll not be a pawn to an absent
God."
"I'll fight for my freedom, for my people, and follow my conscience.
Yes, I fear for my keen, and I long for his return, but more than that this warband
is stronger with him and with Krellus."
And there it is, if they managed to find him.
We must give them more time.
"They may never return," my lady, Albin said quietly, voicing her deepest fear.
"Doubt and worry, nor did her."
She remembered standing on the riverbank beyond Brickhand's Tower as the warband escaped
deeper into the forest, camouflaged, amongst Nefair's warriors.
McIn, Albin and Krellus had stood with her, looking back at the tower, thinking of Veridis
and what he had vowed to do, to slay Caledus, one of the Calishim.
They had all seen the explosion of fire light up the tower window and moments later seen
the forms leak from it, hurtling into the river.
It was Veridis.
They were sure.
McIn and Krellus had made to rush after him then and there, but Albin had stayed them
a while, calling out names and gathering a score of men to go with them.
McIn had crushed her in a tight embrace.
"Stay," she'd whispered in his ear.
"The Veridis is my friend," McIn had replied, "and he freed us."
He'd held his gaze a long heartfelt moment and then he was gone, running into the night.
Was that our last moment together?
"My lady," one of the guards close by said, pointing into the darkness of form forest.
Someone approaches.
"If you'd lay stared into the shadows, Albin tents beside her, a fist clamped around the
hilt of his sword.
One of the guards had raised a horn to his lips ready to sound the call to arms.
A figures separated from the gloom, dark silhouettes.
Six, seven, then one more, looming behind the others, dwarfing them.
A giant.
Swords were scraping from scabbards, then fiddily recognised the first figure as it passed
through a beam of daylight.
Albin reached a hand out to the guard with a horn to his lips and pulled the horn away.
One of the scouts whom Albin since watched the road.
He was leading a group through the forest towards their camp.
She felt her pulse quicken as her eyes scanned the shapes behind him, and then she
was running, pushing past the guards, ferns and branches whipping at her face.
Another figure was moving ahead of the scout running towards her, a loping stride, all controlled
strength and grace.
Makin. He opened his stride and ran ahead of the others meeting fiddily between two great
oaks. They fell into each other, Makin's arms gripping her around the waist and crushing
her against him. Her lips found his, and the next few moments were lost to the scent
and taste of him. Eventually she heard the others approaching and stepped back, hands
still holding his, and looked at him. He was sweat stained, hair pressed dark against his
head, and he was smiling at her, softening the hard lines and scars upon his face.
He reached out and brushed a strand of hair from her cheek.
"Now, that's a greeting worth fighting demons from the other world for," he said.
"Even if it is most uncleanly behaviour," I glanced at knowledge the eyes
gathering upon them. "I am more than just a queen," Fiddily said with a shrug, and besides,
in these times, death feels never more than a few steps behind us.
While I still draw breath, I lift my life as I choose. Her eyes drifted to his bare arm
a jagged wound hastily stitched. It looked more like an animal bite than the product
of a weapon. The edges were torn and bloodied. He saw her gaze upon the injury and shrugged
riley. "Can you never come back to me without a fresh wound?"
"It's a bad habit, I must confess," he smiled at her.
The others gathered about them now, and Fiddily saw crillest standing with veridus, the bulk
of LC on the giant behind them. They were both blood stained and sweating, exhausted, but
both of them were grinning at Albin, as the old warrior hugged them both.
There was a crashing behind her, and they all turned to see rain of a giant sess of her
bare and plowing through the undergrowth towards them.
LC pushed past crillest and veridus, sending them flying, and met his family with an inhuman
howl, their arms rapping around one another, holding, squeezing as if they were becoming
one. Slowly, they sank to their knees, still entwined, a shuddering sound pulsating
from them. LC on the sobs. He held their faces, smothered them both with kisses, wife
and son, and their tears and smiles mingled with his. In such dark times as these it
was heartwarming to see such love. She gripped Maki in his hand more tightly in her
own. If only such happiness could last.
"So, what now?" Crillest asked them. The small gathering were sitting around the burned
out remains of a fire pit in the centre of their camp. "We must go to Dresil," Albin said.
"Most way?" Crillest asked, looking around at them all. "I'm not one to walk away from
my fights, but I've just lost 19 men to," his voice trailed off.
To demons of the other world, veridus said, to the caddish him. Still can't quite believe
it. Crillest muttered. Wiping her hand across his eyes. "I'm not one for fairy tales,"
he said, "but I know what I saw. My blade, in an enemy's heart, and the bloody creature
just smiled at me."
I act to take his head to stop him trying to rip my throat out. I saw winged things
have missed and shadow forming above the headless corpses. He shook his head. "If we go
to Dresil, it sounds as if we'll fess an army of these things. My men are warriors,
bread for battle, brave, and true hearted. But they are only men of flesh and blood."
So, I must ask this question. His gaze returned to Albin. "Is this our fight?"
Albin nodded. "It is," he said. "This is the god-war, Crillest. My cow and the bright star
are there, so Dresil must be where it will be decided."
The battle is more slightly already over, Crillest said. N affair and his allies have at
least a ten nights march on us.
"If we do not go, who else will?" Albin said. "It is our duty to go."
"My duty is to my men," Crillest said, waving a hand at the wall-band about them.
"And to the people of Tenabral, we are less than a thousand souls. We cannot win."
As to changing man would withdraw, live to fight another day when the odds are more
in our favour.
"There will not be another day if we do not fight now," Albin said.
The Calidus and the fair will destroy our allies one by one. We must stand with those
who oppose them now before it is too late.
And what if there is none of these allies left alive at Dresil by the time we get there?
"We will not know unless we go there," Albin replied.
"A silent lengthened, all looking between Crillest and Albin."
"Well, maybe your right," Crillest eventually said, nodding thoughtfully.
"I've always come to you when it's wisdom I've been looking for. But what if you're
wrong?"
Marching deep into the heart of Thorne into unknown ground against a foe that outnumbers
us greatly. That's not wisdom. Not when we could retreat and choose our own ground, but
still this is a fight we must all agree to.
"Say it to all of you. Ask you all, as my brothers in arms, are you for this fight here?
Now are you for Dresil? Are you for home?"
Home thoughtfully. Part of me longs to find a place of peace with Meckin where this
war cannot touch us. But is there a place far enough from this war to escape it?
And even if there were, I would not abandon the people of Tenorbroul to death and torment.
And then there is an affair. But ever he has done, he is still my son, I cannot just leave
him.
"Well," Crillest said, dragging Fridolay from her thoughts.
"We are friends here. Equals. We have not been ordered by our Lord or King. We are
free to choose."
Crillest put it to the votes. "As for Me, I say we leave this forest behind us. Back
to Tenorbroul to raise more swords and choose our battle ground.
"I am for Dresil," Albin said.
"If Fidolay looked around the fire-pits or all lost in their own deliberations, I would
go to Dresil," she thought, "to save my son and for vengeance upon like us. But Crillest
speaks wisdom. What have you, little brother?" Crillest asked. "Are you for the great tree,
of a hall on the bay? There it is finally raised his head and regarded them all with
his dark, serious eyes. I have been full, been deceived and committed dark deeds in
the name of good." His face twisted with a bit of grimace as he looked at his open palms.
I would do what I can to put that right. Verity has continued, "But how?" he
mused. "My heart says Dresil. My head says home. Crillest is right. We do not know
what awaits or such, Dresil, though. I do know this."
"Cally does, has charged jail of Iseltier, Gondel of Carnotan and Lothar of Helveth to
build roads to Dresil, and with them they bring the full might of their realms. If we
managed to make the long journey through fawn, we would face impossible odds at the end
of it."
"Not if my car on the bright star still stand," Altman said. "And if they have fallen,"
Crillest said. "You are advising us to do the opposite of all you of torts. Know your
enemy. Choose your ground, that's what you've always told me."
Crillest shook his head. "I know," Altman admitted.
"What of you?" Crillest asked, shifting his gaze to Altian and the Giants.
Raina was cutting Altian's hair with her knife, leaving the top long and thick, the
side shaved to the skin.
"What is she doing to him?" He looked more fearsome than ever before.
"We will travel with you, whichever way you go. If you will have us," Altian said.
"And why would you wish to join us?" Crillest asked. "I is narrowing. Why not just leave
now and go back to your clan? So reasons," Altian said. His voice like gravel. A blood
is dead, he glanced at veridis, and a blood feud. As he said the last, his fists clenched,
knuckles popping.
"Calidus made me a slave. Kept my family prisoner. I would even that score, fight him now,
fight him later." Altian shrugged. "As long as I fight him, I cannot. If you don't
mind me asking," Crillest added to Altian. By the new aircoat. Altian rubbed the side of
his head, stubble, rasping on his palm, the hair on the top of his head, a thick wedge.
"This is my clan's tradition. When Calidus caught me and bent me to his will, I was
Kergan no longer. I did not deserve the mark of my clan, but now I am Kergan again."
He smiled viciously.
"Now the course is clear," Fiddellay said. "The wisdom suggests we retreat. Are there
any other options?"
"We could fight now," McKeene said. All eyes turned to him. The grizzled warrior looked
at his hands, turning them over. Fiddellay beside him saw the calluses and scars. "In
the pit I have faced one foe, and I have faced many foes. It is always easier against
one. I saw him fight four men and slay them all. Against many, I strike fast. Before
they have a chance to join against me, and I strike hard to kill with one blow."
"I, but this is no pits. This is foreign forest. And our enemies are not lining up before
us," Critters growled.
"They will be, if we allow them to. But one of them is close to us, cut off from the
other's gundling the war band of connetanna out there, close, building a road, distracted,
spread out with their backs to us. We'll likely fight him one day, though next time
we see him, we'll probably be with half the realms of the banish lands at his back.
Whether we go to Dressel, or walk away, I say we have an opportunity here to even the
gods a little, an opportunity would be fools to miss. And besides, he added, "There's
nothing like a good fight to clear their mind."
CHAPTER X
J.L.
J.L. stumbled, and almost fell, swearing under his breath as he reached out to grab a thick
branch. I hate this forest.
And he steadied himself, pausing to wipe sweat from his brow and catch a few breaths.
His huntsman, Dag, was summer up ahead, setting a grueling pate as they marched through
foreign forest. How many nights have we lived in this twilight nightmare? 20? 30? 100?
Will it ever end? A line of warriors was strung before and behind him. A few hundred
men, the only survivors of his war band that are marked so proudly to the gates of Dressel.
Thousand strong, the might of Isalty are now broken, slain or scattered. And a third of those
he fled with mere fallen since then to the forest and to its inhabitants. He shuddered at
the memory of finding guards gray and lifeless, their blood drained like juice from a ripe
fruit, nothing much more left of them than skin and bone.
How did it come to this? Victory was so close, Dressel, almost mine. How did that boy
defeat Sumur? He ground his teeth at the memory of Corbin taking the
catachim's head in single combat. It had been a blow, he could not deny, and it had done
little for the morale of jail's war band. So jail had ordered his finest warriors,
his personal guard, to swarm Corbin and slay him. Sure victory had seemed mere heartbeats
away, but then the gates of Dressel had opened that devil, wolfin and the stallion galloping
out the head of a host of giants and sword-waving lunatics. It had all gone downhill from
there. That had been when jail had made the decision to retreat. Retreat, not flee. A strategic
withdrawal. Better to retreat and live to fight another day. And that is what I shall
do here. Retreat to Isalty a raise a fresh war band fight to hold on to what I have achieved.
My lord, a voice said behind him. A sweat-soaked warrior was giving him a concerned frown.
"What?" jail snapped irritably. "The line, my king." The warrior said, jerking his
head forwards. Jail realized the warriors had been following were still moving, disappearing
into the foliage and shadows. Fear jolted him into movement the thought of being stranded
in the forest without Dag to guide him was a horror he had no wish to endure. He hastened
on, limbs heavy and leaden, catching up with the men ahead then he was settling back
into the monotonous march, his eyes fixed on the heels of the man in front of him.
Whispering a head caused jail to look up from the ground. Dag was moving back down the
line, patting a shoulder here, paused into so few words there. Never thought of him
as lead a material. For some reason the thought irritated jail, always seemed a cologneer,
and those scars on his face don't make him more pleasant to be around. The huntsman eventually
reached jail. "You have news," jail asked. The shame to the desperation and hopefully
tried to keep from his voice. "I," Dag said, "there's men up ahead."
Jail peered through dense undergrowth. For a moment struggling to understand what he
was seeing. Only a dozen or so paces away, the undergrowth ended. A man made clearing dotted
with cut tree stumps, lead towards an embankment. Men, hundreds of them, were swarming over
the embankment which stretches far as he could see in both directions. They were working,
many wielding long handled axes and hammers were rising and falling, the rhythmic thud
of their blows drumming through the forest. They're building a road. It must be loathar,
or gondle, still building to reach dressill and win the race that I had already won. Just
looking at the industriousness of what could only be his allies even if they were also rivals
and jail's mind, he began to feel something resolved confidence returning. I am safe, safe
from the forest, safe from pursuit. With me," he said to Dag, as he pushed his way through
the undergrowth. He paused a moment, stood straighter and adjusted his tattered cloak, allowing
his men to gather behind him, then marched across the clearing towards the embankment. The
alarm was sounded when he was spotted, and warriors rapidly appeared clad in mail in brandishing
swords and spears. Quirasses and banners bore the emblem of a burning torch upon a pale
field. Gondle's war band, then. Excellent. He is far weaker than loathar, a much easier
to manipulate. Jail strode to a warrior standing amidst what was rapidly becoming a bristling
head of sharp iron already imagining that they were his warriors, his war band. Take me
to your king!" Jail demanded imperiously. Jail pulls for a moment from a road down which
warriors of Chinatown were leading him. He'd walked a good half-league away from the forefront
of his new road, built upon a fresh-powered embankment with the forest stripped back to
either side. Wains were moving up and down the road, warriors lining it. Gondle's camper
appeared, a sprawling mast of the south of the new road at its centre, a huge tent upon
a low hill. How many? He whispered to Dag. He strode a step behind him. The rest of his
tattered war band had been left at the side of the road. Three, four thousand swords. The
husband said with a shrug, hard to tail with all the other hangs on. They weaved through
the camp, a host of sounds and smells of sailing jail as he was guided through a maze
of tents and cook fires, cattle load from paddocks, the stink of human habitation wafting towards
him. After being a refugee in this otherworldly and oppressive forest for so long, he felt
almost overwhelmed by it. The tent, jail, had spied from the road rose up before him,
larger than it had at first appeared. His escort of a few score warriors led him purposefully
towards it. Gondle. A circle of pale skinned and black-eyed warriors
stood guard about the tent, clothed in dark mail and leather, curved swords arching over
their shoulders. Nothair's Gihar. A score of them had marched with his own war band
with Sumor as their captain. He remembered Sumor a skill in battle, the fury of the others
as they had charged into battle. And the winged things that poured from them like poison
when they fell, his skin crawled. Whatever they are, they are not men, but whatever they are,
they still died, still failed me, so much for Nothair's great warriors. He felt an irrational
anger about that, even as he felt fear and revulsion crawling across his skin. He regarded
the Gihar before him suspiciously. "What are you?" "Respect them. Don't fear them.
You remind them, self." They died the same as the rest of us, Sumor
felt a corbin, and the rare snow-doubt during the battle before the gates of dressill.
A pair of warriors parted before jail. One opened the tent flap and jail, entered,
dagged, still a step behind. The tent was luxuriously furnished, thick furs carpeting
the ground and gold trim tapestries, draping the walls. Perfined candles burned, their
sent thick and heavy in the air. Gondall was sitting on a wide-backed chair, one leg drugged
across the chair's arm. Women clad in diaphanous silk, feeding him from various platters.
The handful of young men lounged about him, their hair and veered slick and shining
with oil, all of them were immaculately dressed in velvets and soft skins. Look at them,
fawning sycophants gathered about the pot of gold, not a single one of them looks like
they've held a blade in battle.
jail suppressed a sneer.
"Well met, Gondall," he said, as he strode forwards.
Gondall studied him, a blank expression replaced slowly with recognition. He shifted in his
chair but did not rise.
"Well, if it isn't jail of his yelter," Gondall said, a flaccid smile spreading across his
face. King of Isletir, jail silently corrected as he returned a force smile.
"I did not recognize you," Gondall said, taking a long moment to look jail up and down.
jail was abruptly aware of his appearance. When he rode to the gates of Drassel, he had
been dressed in his finest war gear. A coat of gleaming chainmail, sabled cloak trimmed
with fur, britches, and boots of doe skin. Now his cloak was mud-crusted and in tatters. His
chainmail smeared and rusting his face and arms griming and scratched beyond counting.
"What a wonderful surprise," Gondall said with a barely-discite smirk. "I had heard that
you were lost, presumed dead after your defeat by the rabble at Drassel, I rejoiced
that you live." "Then why do you look so disappointed? Already
planning the annexation of my realm, I guess?" Nothing made jail angry at them thought
of someone else stealing the realm he had so recently stolen for himself. He suppressed
the urge to wrap his fingers around Gondall's throat. If he thinks he can take Isletir
from me, I will make him inked his own intestines. "A sentiment, I share. I can assure
you," jail said, strapping his smile upon his face. The enemy at Drassel used film magic
against us. Alas, brave hearts and strong arms were not enough against the dark powers of
Azeroth's black son. "Really?" Gondall said, the more genuine
smile twitching his lips. He sat straighter in his chair. Nefair had little trouble against
their fel magic. "What do you mean?" jail asked. King Nefair took
Drassel over a ten-night to go, the enemy are broken and scattered. "What? The war
is over. Well, from what I hear there is some resistance still but little more than the
death throes of a foe that has not realized it's already lost."
The war over and my own warband defeated. I had hoped for more time to return to Isletir
and raise a new warband, fresh battles, and win some glory before the war was ended. But
now that is wonderful news." jail said, speaking through a fixed grin, "I can see that
your old building is going well. If I could ask one favor, what do you want?" Gondall
asked, looking suddenly bored with the conversation. He thinks we broken. A defeated rival
of no consequence. Jail stopped his teeth from grinding. "Horses for myself and my men, an
escort back to Isletir. Your men?" Gondall sniffed. Looking disdainfully at DAG
used to it silently behind jail. One of the young men gathered about Gondall sniggered.
"Come. Get what you need. Just remember the sycophant's face."
"Yes, King Gondall," jail said, and his most comradly voice. "My warband are currently resting
after their exertions. How many?" Gondall frowned. "Around 300," jail said. "I'm not
sure that counts as a warband." Gondall smiled, slyly, and jail's fingers twitched. But
even so 300 horses are doubt I can spare so many. All my resources are going into building
this road you understand. I will reach Jostle before Lothar."
So that race is still on. "But perhaps we can help each other," then jail said.
"How could you possibly help me?" Gondall sneered. Looking pointedly at jail's
tattered appearance. Jail bit back a harsh response as stood straighter. "I am still the king
of Iseltier. I could bring fresh workers to build your road. Two thousand at least, maybe
more." Gondall smiled broadened, and he sat straight in his chair waving away the servants
offering him platters of food. "You shall have your horses," he said.
Jail opened his mouth to speak but paused. The faint sound of shouting was filtering through
the tent's opening. Gondall heard it too, and held his hand up to a man who was trying
to whisper in his ear. The noises rapidly grew louder, shouts turning to screens, punctuated
with the distinct sound of iron clashing. Jail glanced at Dagg, who stood poised like an
animal on the edge of flight, one hand upon the hilt of his dagger. "We need to leave."
Against the Huntsman, his to jail. "What is that?" Gondall snapped, standing, fear and worry flickering
across his features. "It is battle, something that I don't think you are fully acquainted
with." Gondall stroked from the tent. His gaggler followers tied behind him. Jail and
Dagg slipped out after them. Outside, Gondall was stood on the slope of the hill, staring
with a look of confused disbelief towards the northern fringe of his camp. Warriors were
pouring onto the road from its far side, cutting into the milling guards and workers.
Jail saw resistance, legislatively forming. Warriors from Gondall's war band attempting
to form a defensive line across the road, but before they could organise themselves, they
were locked in combat with their assailants. Within moments, the attackers had burst through
their hastily-formed resistance and were streaming down the embankment into the camp.
"Assroth stones, what now?" The Geeha on the hillside were drawing close about Gondall,
black eyes staring. "We need to get out of here," Dagg repeated. "What's going on?"
Gondall cried, part temper, part hysteria. "It would appear you were right,"
and Jail said, not able to keep the smirk from his face at the sound of terror in
Gondall's voice even though he felt the coils of fear squirming in his own belly.
"The enemy that you said did not know they were beaten, that they appeared to be attacking
you."
CHAPTER 11
Makin
Makin gazed through foliage at the sprawling camp, feeling his body tense and fingers
twitched for his knife-hilt as he watched Crellus' men appear on the road and engaged
Gondall's men.
"Crouch on the far south of the camp, he saw a few dozen enemy guards standing with their
backs to him in an open space cleared between the camp and the tree-line. They looked
unsure of what to do. The man beside Makin gripped his sword and took a step forwards.
"Wait," Makin whispered, seizing the warrior's arm. "Not till Crellus hits the camp."
Makin had been given the command of a hundred men, and they were spread loosely around
him, hidden in the shadows and foliage. Only one thing had he said to them before they
had moved into position. "When I go, keep with me."
Their task was to attack from the south and sweep up through the camp, spreading
as much mayhem and panic along the way as was possible.
Makin was unused to leading men.
They've enthaled and fighting pits had honed his will to survive, teaching him that above
all else you fight for yourself.
But that is what Lycus wanted, to break me, to strip away my loyalties to make me less
than human. I will not be that man again."
The main attack was to be led by Crellus, his first objective to clear the new road of
all resistance. He was there that their scouts had reported most of Gundles' warband were
to be found.
Once the road was clear, Crellus was to assault the camp, which was the signal for the
others.
Makin and Albin were leading smaller groups hidden to the west and south of the camp.
The plan was to meet Crellus and his force at the command tent, situated on a hill
close to the camp centre.
At the thought of it, begins our eyes drifted to the tent on the mound.
Men were appearing from its entrance, standing and staring at the commotion that Crellus
was causing.
Gundles. It must be.
Two other men emerged from the tent, hanging back from the rest. One of them seemed familiar
in the way he walked, his posture, a confidence.
Then dark cloth figures were appearing from around the hill, drawing tight about those who
were to merge from the tent. Even from this distance, there was something clearly different
about them.
Kalashim. Dammit. We're outnumbered as it is without those hells spawned to complicate things.
He shrugged it himself, knew they were committed now and there was no turning back.
And this whole attack was my idea, so I'd best be getting to that tent and making sure
we win this thing.
He looked back to the road and saw Crellus' warriors pouring down the embankment and
into the camp.
Good.
With a battle cry, Hicks exploded into motion, bursting from the tree-line, drawing a knife
in each hand as he sped towards the guard, spread between him and the camp.
A few paces behind him, his hundred followed.
He heard a distant roar from the west, knew that Albon and his warriors were doing the
same.
Makim ducked a spear thrust and crashed into the man holding it, one of his knives punching
through leather into flesh, ripping it free as his momentum carried him on, leaving the man
on his knees, hands clutching at his belly.
In moments, the guards along the camp's edge were either dead or fleeing. The sudden
onslaught of Makim and his warriors too much for them.
Makim gathered his warriors in charge into the camp, kicking at fires, smashing gates open,
freeing cattle, hacking and slashing at anyone who got in their way.
In heartbeats, flames were licking at tents and smoke was billowing.
Stampedeing cattle knocked men flying, the whole world seemed to dissolve into chaos.
Makim turned a corner and almost ran into a dozen warriors, the ensuing combat savage
and short.
Makim's knives finding throats and arteries as he slipped through them like a violent wind,
the men following him crashing upon those still standing.
He sped through the camp, a knife dripping blood in each hand, leaving a trail of bodies
in his wake.
As he traveled deeper, any kind of resistance melted away, those he came across ran from
him and he was happy to let them go.
For the most part, they were not gungal's warriors, but merchants, smiths, tanners, cobblers,
whores and bands, and maybe a killer, but I'll not slay the innocent.
Soon, the initial red mist of battle began to fade, and he glanced behind, saw the black
and silver of Ripper's warriors following him.
Not used to leading men these days all being in a fight this big, mustn't forget they're
with me, mustn't forget the plan.
Pulsing, he gave his men a chance to gather behind him as he tried to get his bearings.
Screams and the concussive clash of iron drifted down from the north.
Crellis sounds closer.
Let's get to that command tent.
Gondol must die for this to succeed, and to do that, we must carve away through his
kadoshim.
He reached up to his shoulder and felt the hilt of a short sword, one of the pairs strapped
across his back.
He'd preferred using his knives, but taking heads from kadoshim was swordwork.
He set off again.
Close packed tent suddenly gave way to an open space, Cookfire spread about it, tents
forming a loose circle.
Weapons racks were rolled along one edge.
A mass of men were pulling spears from stands, strapping on helms, hefting shields.
Meking skidded to a halt, realising what he had stumbled upon.
A barracks for the warriors of this warband.
With a snail, he ran at them.
He hit a knot of men before they had any time to react, his knives tracing a red ruin
across their bodies.
In moments, he was through them and hurling himself at a new wall of men.
Weapons trusted him, but the battle rage was upon him.
The world seeming to slow, and he twisted and flowed around every blow aimed at him,
his knives licking out to slice throats, puncture groins, cut hamstrings.
Dimley, he heard the clash of arms behind him, knew his men were following.
Faces appeared before him grim, fearful, shocked, all fell to his twin blades.
His progress slowed.
The men crammed together now, his ability to move and sway hindered by a crush of bodies.
A quick glance showed his men behind him, fighting furiously, but they were outnumbered and
the enemy was beginning to curl around their flanks.
Surprise and savagery had taken them so far, but had not broken their foe.
Things are about to get messy.
Meking stepped to the right, deflected a thrust aimed at the ribs of one of his men,
slashed across the face of the attacker, kicked another in the knee, saw him buckle and stepped
close to cut his throat.
There was a great crash, and a concussion that undulated through the hard-pressed warriors.
Someone else joining this party.
Meking glimpsed a giant figure, Alcyon, wielding two Woodman's axes, as Meking was
using his knives, carving away through the enemy like a sigh that harvest time.
Heads and limbs flew through the air in great gouts of blood.
Albin's crew.
Meking grinned, and leapt at his enemy, new strength powering his muscles.
Within moments Gungal's warriors were wavering, a ripple of doubt and fear spreading
through them, and then they were fleeing.
Meking buried a knife in a back, ripped it free, and stood over the collapsing figure,
Gore covered, and breathing heavily.
He saw Alcyon decapitate one more fleeing warrior, his wife, Rayna, and their son, Tane,
either side of him, Albin's warriors spread about them.
And well met, a voice said, and Meking turned to see Albin striding towards him.
The old man was pale, and had blood seeping from the bandage around his shoulder.
I told him to stay at our camp.
He had been better off there, and I'd have been happier knowing someone of his skill
was guarding fiddily.
He felt away the fear for her as he did every time that he was parted from her, but this
was war.
They both knew that she could not be here in the midst of this.
Almette, Meking replied, "Sheathing a knife and gripping the old man's arm."
He left blood-stained fingerprints, "Think you might have just saved my skin."
Albin looked around at the body's piled about Meking and threw out the barrack ground.
"I doubt that," he said.
He glanced up through the rolling smoke at the hill that loomed not far away.
"Gundle," Meking said.
"I, let's go and find him."
Both of their war bands were about them now.
"There's Khadashim on that hill," Meking said loudly.
"They don't die easily, remember, you must take their heads."
Albin and others nodded grimly.
Meking grinned at them, then ran for the hill.
Clouds of smoke billowed about him, parted for a moment, and he saw the hill, the huge
and gordy tent upon it, strangely out of place in the somber gloom of fawn.
Meking ran faster.
The camp, a place of flame and shadow, the thud of his comrades, feet behind him, screams
and battle cries swirling on the edying smoke.
Then the ground began to rise, and he burst from the haze and tents.
Albin, Alcyon, and their men only a few paces behind him.
Men were still on the hill, but they were retreating, at least three score of the Khadashim
that encircled them were herding them north-east towards the newest part of the road.
They're fleeing, running for Jassel, and further along the road there'll be more reinforcements
can't let them reach that road.
Meking sheathed his knives and drew the two short swords as he ran.
The space between them narrowed quickly.
Meking and those with him were silent, no battle cries, only the drum of their feet and
a jangle and creek of male and leather.
Now properly, gondle and Khadashim were aware of them, gondle yelling orders.
A score of the Khadashim peeled away from the group, curved swords being drawn from behind
their backs.
One fixed its black eyes on Meking and ran at him, a dark grin splitting its pallid face.
Meking felt a fist of fear squirming his belly, remembering their ferocity and other
worldliness when he'd encountered them previously.
He growled in anger at his own fear and ran faster.
The first Khadashim almost took his head, its sword whistling her fingers with above him as
he threw himself into a roll, coming to his feet behind the creature, his own strike at its
neck blocked with blinding speed, his second blade slicing through the back of its leg
as it spun to face him.
Meking leapt away.
The creature stumbling as he tried to follow, its hamstrings cut.
Even so, it was unnaturally fast, lurching after him.
It should be on the ground, not still trying to gut me.
All around him, his warriors were locked in combat with the Khadashim, battle cries and
death screams rang out.
He glimpsed albin take a head, saw that terrible black vapor fill the air.
His distraction nearly cosmic in his life as his attacker launched a combination of two-handed
blows at him.
He parried two and slipped inside the third, instantively punching a shortsword into its belly.
The Khadashim's mouth gaped wide, foul breath washing over him as his teeth snapped, trying
to fasten on his throat.
He headbutted it, pushed away, leaving one sword in its belly, his other blade whistling
around to crunch into its collarbone, blood and bone spraying as he wrenched it free and
hacked again, this time cutting deep into the creature's neck.
He darted in, swerving away from its curved sword, chopping at its neck to finish the
job.
Somehow the Khadashim's hand snaked out and caught his blade in its fist.
A finger flew through the air but still, it held on, as it tried to bring its own sword
round to bear.
The king grabbed its sword wrist, and for a few heartbeats, they lurched together in an
ungainly dance.
Within seconds became new, he could not win a contest of strength, the Khadashim's grip was
unnaturally strong.
Then, in the blink of an eye, its head was spinning through the air and Albin's face appeared
before him.
The Khadashim's body slumped, fist still gripped around my kin's sword blade, oily black
smoke pouring from the open wound of its neck.
A winged creature formed in the air above him and screamed wordless hatred at him, then
the wind caught it, and it was gone.
Making sagged, Albin's hand reaching out to steady him.
"There's no getting used to that," McKean breathed, as he yanked his swords free of
the creature's corpse.
He looked around, saw more of the demon forms appearing in the air above them and then evaporating.
At a glance, it seemed that most of those Khadashim that had attacked them had fallen,
though many of McKean's and Albin's men were lying still and silent upon the ground.
As McKean watched, Alsion, Rayna, and Tane dispatched the last Khadashim.
"Gandal," McKean breathed.
"Down there," Albin gestured.
McKean saw the King of Khanna Tane disappearing amongst the tents, far more Khadashim still
about him than McKean had hoped to see.
Two men were moving with them.
One of them paused as the others disappeared from view and looked back for a moment McKean's
eyes locked with him.
He staggered, felt as if he'd just been punched in the gut.
"It cannot be," McKean's heart was suddenly pounding in his chest, a wave of shock spilling
into fury.
"Jale,"
Chapter 12
Jale
Jale stood and stared at the warriors on the hill.
One man had emerged ahead of the others, blood soaked, and battle grim, a shortsword in each
hand.
He was staring back at Jale, and although they were a good hundred paces apart, Jale
was certain he saw a hatred twist the man's features.
There is something familiar about him.
"My lord," Dag said, "putting at his sleeve.
We must keep moving."
They were following the Jihad that was shepherding Gandal, and his retinue of lackeys
to safety, hoping that the Jihad would guard Jale and Dag as well as the others as they
passed through the camp.
Jale had heard the sounds of battle from the hilltop and paused to watch the bloody work
of the handful of Jihad warriors that had remained behind.
They had fallen, but then it was a score against close to two hundred, and even so the
Jihad had decimated their enemy.
As Jale stared, he saw the man burst into motion running hard towards him screaming Jale's
name.
"He knows me."
Jale took an involuntary step back.
"It doesn't seem to like me much, though."
"Who?"
Then he knew.
"My King."
He had changed almost beyond all recognition, slimmer than Jale remembered him.
His body chiseled, arms and legs a striated mass of muscle, face a place of ridges, scars
and hate-filled eyes.
How is he here?
He should be dead, or at least a thousand leagues from here, and in shackles.
Jale remembered the last time he had seen Makin on the bridge at Dunkelon, chained and
being dragged away by Lycos to a Vinfallen slave ship.
The fool had challenged me to the court of swords, insulted me in front of my men.
From the look on Makin's face, that court of swords was still high on his agenda.
Jale gulped.
If Makin's expression did not convince him that he was time to go, the warriors charging
down the hill behind Makin did.
There were giants amongst him.
This way, Dagg snapped at him as they entered a maze of tents.
Banks of thick smoke rolling through it, the shouts and screams of battle drifting and swirling
all about them.
Footsteps drummed on the turf of the hill some way behind him, and the G-hower were nowhere
to be seen.
Panic clenched a fist in his gut.
"Jale!"
A voice scream behind him.
Keep running.
Then he saw Dagg, the huntsman moving fast, head, dipped, scanning the ground.
Jale followed him around a tent, ran down an empty aisle of churned mud and barrels piled
high, then turned again and saw the dark figures of the G-hower hurrying ahead of them.
Relief swept him, and he picked up his pace, he and Dagg steadily catching up with
Dunkelon, his protectors.
They were close to the G-hower now, only a score of paces separating them.
A final burst of speed, and Jale was at their heels.
He tried to shoulder his way between two of them and entered their protective circle,
but one turned and fixed him with its black, dead eyes.
"Let me through," Jale gasped.
"I am, Jale, king of Isold here, you must protect me!"
The G-hower warrior cocked its head at him, then it pushed Jale back, sending him stumbling.
Jale reached out and steadied him, shouldn't have left my men on the roadside, and
neither, my men!"
Jale breathed to Dagg.
"Thinkless lie to go on that way," Dagg said, "safe for the travel with them."
"I," Jale muttered.
He saw Dagg surreptitiously glance down corridor was made by rows of tents.
He looks as if he's thinking of slinking off, but probably do the same if I was him.
"Gold," Jale hacked out of his burning lungs.
"I need this man."
"What?"
"Gold, for you, when you get me to me kill, more than you can carry, more than you've ever dreamed of."
"I've dreamed of a lot of gold in my time," Dagg said.
"You've earned it," Jale breathed.
"Rickin' I have," Dagg muttered.
"A greedy smile crept across his face.
I'll get you to make you, the huntsman said."
The sounds of battle suddenly grew louder.
A knot of enemy warriors clothed in black and silver appeared ahead of them.
They looked like nefarious colours.
Jale drew his sword as a warrior lurched before him.
One of Gundell's men, his sword wildly parrying a flurry of blows from a warrior in black
and silver.
Jale stabbed his sword into the attacker's side, ripping his sword free, he pushed the
dying man away and leapt over him, eyes searching for Dagg, his heart pounding desperately
when he could not see him.
This way, Dagg called to him.
Something slammed into Jale's back.
He flew through the air, weightless for a moment, then hit the ground, air crushed from
his lungs, and he was sliding in the mud rolling.
He came to a stop and rose to one knee, trying to ignore the pain in his chest and shoulder,
hand grasping for his sword-hilt, looking back to see a lunatic covered in blood rising
from the ground.
McKeene
"Run!" Jale's mind screamed at him, but he knew he would not make it.
McKeene was too close for him to make a safe escape.
Jale rose to his feet and he emptied his sword.
"I am the finest sword in Isalt here.
I slew Castell in single combat and he was a great swordsman in his prime, not old
and half mad like this man before me."
He set his feet and raised his blade.
The world around him faded.
The battle raging only a handful of strides away dimmed as a cold focus settled upon him
as it always did when he committed to the blade.
"Come!" he shouted, "and I'll send you to meet Castell!"
He thought to anger McKeene, unbalance him with rage as angry men make mistakes.
By the look of McKeene's face his tactic worked.
The man gripped his second blade and launched himself forwards, face twisted and snarl.
He's moving too fast.
The smile twitched at Jale's lips as he stepped forwards to meet McKeene lunging as he did
so his saw tip aimed straight at McKeene's heart.
His own speed will impale him the idiot.
He's a dead man.
But then Jale was stabbing into empty air, McKeene no longer where he was supposed to be.
The blow slammed into Jale's side, crunching into his ribs, wiped paying, exploding in
his chest as he dropped to one knee.
The sudden urge to vomit almost consumed him.
He's broken my ribs.
He reloaded in shock.
His hand probing at his side, all the chainmail links bent and broken.
Move or die.
Jale heaved himself to his feet, raised his sword and pivoted on his heel, but the expected
blow never came at him.
His dead, McKeene was standing a few paces away, just staring at him.
"I've waited a long time for this," McKeene said.
His voice has cold and hard as frosted iron, "healing you quicks to good for you."
A seed of fear blossomed in Jale's chest, the utter confidence in McKeene's eyes chilling
him.
"Don't be a fool.
I've watched him train on the weapons court.
I know his strengths, his weaknesses, his old, slow.
I know I can beat him."
Castell said something similar, just before I bled him like a sow.
Jale said, trying to keep the pain of his splintered ribs out of his voice.
McKeene came at him, slowly, this time.
Jale noticed knife hilt protruding from half a dozen places on McKeene, to on his belt,
a shoulder strap, a hilt poking from a boot.
One of McKeene's short-sores trailed a lazy circle as the battle scarred warrior rolled
a wrist, then almost faster than Jale could follow McKeene was striking at him.
Jale staggered backwards, pain from his ribs exploding with every breath and step as he blocked
McKeene's blows each parry more ragged than the last.
He's as fast as the Geeha, as impossible, what happened to him?
Anick threatened Jale now, as a line of white fire ignited long one thigh when McKeene
cut him, moving too fast for him to defend against another wound appearing on his forearm,
a slash across his forehead, sending him tumbling backwards as blood sheated into his
eyes.
Jale lay on his back, an arm wiping the blood from his eyes.
Looking up, he saw great sky veiled by the trees of fawn and then McKeene appeared,
looming over him.
His face was latticed with scars, one ear mostly gone, just a lump of flesh remaining,
his hair more gray than black.
Jale searched the ground for the hilt of his sword, felt its worn leather and snatched
at it.
McKeene's boot crunched into his ribs as the old warrior kicked him.
Jale screamed, rolled over, vomited bile into the mud.
"When you see Castell, be sure and tell him I kept my oath," McKeene said above him.
"This can't be happening.
He's old!"
Jale rolled onto his back, arms raised, wanting to beg for mercy, but he couldn't seem
to get his lungs to work properly, only a blubbering wheeze came from his gaping mouth.
McKeene raised one of his swords, then there was a crunch, and McKeene was gone.
He turned his head and saw McKeene born to the ground grappling with another figure, small
and wiry.
"Dag, I love that man."
Jale climbed to his knees, grabbed his sword, and leaving himself to his feet, a wave of
dizziness and nausea, threatening him as his broken ribs complained.
All around him, men were fighting.
The G-har seemingly reduced to a handful, and more men in black and silver joining the
battle.
Gandal and his protectors were nowhere to be seen, and need to get out of here.
McKeene and Dag were still fighting, McKeene's short swords lying in the mud, a knife
glinting in Dag's fist.
Jale stumbled towards them, raised his sword, waiting for a clear thrust of McKeene.
A new battle cry rose up, this one deep and alien.
The giant he had seen in McKeene's company had appeared from out of the smoke and chaos,
two more giants behind him, as well as a knot of warriors in black and silver.
The first giants saw him, and bellowed, then charged at him, all those behind him following.
Jale felt the ground tremble, he glanced down at Dag McKeene, and need McKeene dead,
and Dag alive, he is going to get me back to Israel here.
Jale looked back up at the unrushing giant, and the swarm of sharp iron behind it.
He turned, and ran.
CHAPTER 13.
Fidale.
Fidale paced around the cold ash of the fire pit.
In the distance, she could hear the screams of battle in the clash of iron.
They say I am queen, that I must do my duty and lead the men of Tenabrow, yet they leave
me here with a score of men guarded, like a prisoner, to keep me safe.
How is this leading?
She mounted a string of curses under her breath, some of the shield men left to guard her
glanced at her, a smile twitched the mouth of one.
I should not be here.
When McKeene had suggested the attack on Gondall's camp, she had known instantly that
it was the right thing to do and the thought of doing of attacking instead of running, had
its own heady appeal.
Fidale had seen the others warm to the idea quickly, and had felt a jolt of pride in McKeene,
seeing him listen to by the lords of Ripper.
Not that it had surprised her, should recognise something rare in McKeene during their escape
through Tenabrow, intelligence and strength, and a lack of ego.
He had the ability to look at a situation and know what had to be done, and then to do it
with absolute commitment or die in the trying.
Nor screams echoed through the forest, the din of battle, ebbing and flowing, and she
ground her teeth in frustration.
"I will not be a bystander or a leader that does not lead."
She brushed the knife-hilt at her belt and strode away from the cold fire pit towards
a rack of weapons, gripped a slim shafted spear, and hefted it, testing its weight.
For a moment she was back in Tenabrow, in the forest with McKeene, fighting her fear
as she plunged a spear into the throats of an enthalen warrior.
"My lady," one of the warriors said questioning me.
"I am going to the battle," Fida Lays said.
"What?"
"Is that?
Why?"
"The warrior blinked."
"My lady," he added.
"He was not young," by the look of him, he was a veteran of battle, a scar running through
the red and silver of his beard.
And unused to talking to Queens, it appears.
"What is your name?"
She asked him.
"Aghoste," my lady, he said.
"Well, aghoste, I am going to see how the battle fares."
"But, album is not my lord and does not command me," Fida Lays finished for him.
My people are out there, fighting.
My place is with them, I have seen war and dark deeds," she continued louder.
I am no stranger to blood, and right now the men of Tenabral are spilling theirs, are not
stand hidden and await the outcome.
Though we are few in number, we could still be needed at some hard-pressed moment, battles
have turned on less.
She looked around at their faces, saw the eagerness in their eyes, knew they did not want
to be standing guard over her when their shield brothers were dying.
After that, she gripped her spear like a staff and marched, resolutely out of the camp.
The sound of battle grew steadily louder as they moved through the forest, Aghoste and
a few others slipping in front of her, a protective hand.
Aghoste paused, held his hand up, and they stopped.
"What?"
Fida Lays whispered.
"Someone's out there," Aghoste said, pointing deeper into the forest away from the
sound of battle.
He signaled in a handful of men followed him into the trees disappearing into the shadows.
For a hundred heartbeats, Fida Lays heard nothing, then, shouting, a clash of iron.
Voices.
"My lady," Aghoste voiced called, and Fida Lays stepped through the trees the remainder
of her guard about her.
Aghoste and his warriors stood with three men, all clothed in leather and fur, beards
braided and bound with leather.
This is hung at their belts, single-bladeed and short-hafted.
"There was a hardness about these men that Fida Lays was used to seeing in veterans
a battle.
"Tell her what you told me," Aghoste said.
"We come from Drassel," one said, "sense out in search of allies.
Allies for whom," Fida Lays asked, "who do you fight for?"
"We fight for Corbin, the bright star," the three men said together.
Chapter 14.
Makin.
Makin rolled in the dirt, grunting as his attacker butted him in the mouth.
He spat blood into the man's face butted him back and felt the grip on his wrist
loosened, then he was rolling free, pulling a knife from his boot.
The man facing him climbed to his feet.
He was small, lean with wiry muscle, face a burn-scarred mess.
We have much in common.
Whatever he promised you, JL's not worth it, Makin growled.
"Gold's always worth it," the man snalled back, pulling a knife of his own from a sheath
at his back.
Makin lunged in their blades clashing, sparking, Makin ducking a hooked punch, pivoting away,
back-in close, knife stabbing for his enemy's throat.
He was blocked, the man backing away.
They parted and circled, Makin crouched and circling like a stalking wolf.
A bellowing roar rang out.
Makin's eyes were drawn to the battle about them.
Alsion was there, hacking with his two woodsman's axes at a kadachim that were standing
over another giant figure.
Alsion's son?
The kadachim's head arked through the air, black mist, hissing from the collapsing corpse.
A scuffing of earth drew Makin back to his enemy.
He swayed left, avoided a knife in the eye, kicked out.
His foot connecting with a knee, heard cartilage crunch, then Makin was in close, plunging
his knife into his enemy's belly.
He twisted the blade, ripped it free, and shoved the slumping figure away.
"Can't take gold where you're going," Makin grunted at the dying man.
He didn't answer, eyes were already glazing and vacant.
The battle around him was all but done.
The kadachim that had fallen back from Gandhul's on a guard all slain, though many men
had fallen to their blades.
A scattering of Gandhul's other warriors was still fighting against the black and silver
of Qalas's men, but they were all but broken.
The kadachim stared into the distance, searching for jail.
But I know the direction he was running.
His eyes lifted over the tents to look towards the road and embankment that cut into
form forest, fastest way out of here.
Alsion and Rayna were lifting their sun from the ground.
Makin approached them, retrieving his short swords as he did so.
The giantling was loose-limmed, a cut on his temples swelling, but other than that
he looked well enough.
He'll live, Makin said, "Then my thanks for following me."
The giant shrugged.
Rayna has spoken to me of you, of what you did for her and Tane.
Makin didn't know what to say about that.
He looked beyond the giant's sort of scattering of the warriors he had been put under
his command, realized that the sight of jail had driven all else from his mind.
Albin?" he asked, "On the hill, waiting for Krelis," the giant said.
"I'm here," a voice called, "Krelis, emerging from an aisle between tents."
He was blood-soaked and grinning.
"Remind me to listen to you next time you say you have a plan," he said to Makin.
"The plan's not done until Gungal's dead," Makin said.
"I, where is that little snot-nosed assling?"
Albin got him trussed up on the hill.
"No," Makin grunted.
He's fled with a few score catish him about him.
That way, he pointed.
"Well, what we doing standing here, flapping our jaws, then?"
Just what I was thinking.
Krelis tugged on his beard, eyes narrowing as he looked the way Gungal had fled.
Best go and tell Albin to follow us," Krelis said to Makin.
"We'll need all the swords we can muster against those damn catish him."
"Send someone else," Makin said as he strode away.
"I'm going after Gungal."
And jail.
Chapter 15.
Veridis.
Shield wall.
Veridis shouted, lifting his borrowed shield and expecting those either side of him to lock him to place.
There was a sporadic thudding as shields came up, lacking the control discipline that he was used to.
"These men are not my dregs teeth, not veterans of a score of battles in a shield wall."
He bit back a curse.
"I am lucky they are here at all."
When Veridis had spoken of using the shield wall to clear the road, Krelis had
curled a lip and disgust.
Veridis' brother had never liked the idea of men fighting in such a way to him.
It lacked honour.
It works, and it will save lives.
Even as Veridis had said the words he'd heard and affairs voice echoing them in his mind.
"Your task is to keep the road clear and then to hold it," Albin had said,
stepping in between the two brothers.
"Now how you do it is your decision, Veridis, only guard our backs and stop the reinforcements
that will surely come from further along the road."
Krelis had said no more, and so the plan had proceeded.
Krelis, attacking the road from the north, Albin and McKean spearheading two smaller groups
into the camp.
Veridis and his reserve group holding the road as Krelis moved onto the main camp,
and guarding against the counter attack that would inevitably come.
So far, it had all gone remarkably smoothly.
The enemy, breaking and scattering, surprised and ferocity, shattering any resistance
before it had a chance to form fully.
It's amazing what a small and focused force can do against a larger unprepared one.
He took a deep breath, knew that battle was close, tried to calm the anger he felt bubbling
away inside his chest.
That was his overwhelming emotion right now, anger.
He was angry with Caledus, for the web of lies and deception he had woven,
and for what he had done to an affair, but that was nothing beside the anger he felt
for his old friend.
"N affair, how could you believe Caledus, why did you not resist or come to me sooner?"
We could have stood against Caledus together.
And most of all, he was angry with himself.
"I am a fool. How did I not see it all happening about me?"
And Veridis, the loyal.
Veridis, the trust worthy, Veridis, the blind idiot, I say.
"Can't be so. Focus, you have a battle to fight."
He had gathered his 200 on the embankment to the north east of the camp,
at the point where the road left the camp behind and plowed into the forest.
"From this vantage point, Veridis had watched Krellus, Alden and Makin,
flood through the camp with their small bands of men.
Fires and great ploughs of smoke marked their paths as they moved ever deeper,
inexorably towards the hill with gunnell's command tent on it.
It seemed movement on the hill, what looked like combat,
though it was hard to discern any details because of the distance.
Now the flames and smoke were so dense that it was hard to see anything at all,
but Veridis' attention was needed elsewhere anyway.
To his left, in a depths of form, men were approaching along the road.
Veridis saw a knot of warriors in male and leather at the front and center of a much larger
horde that spilt down the embankments to either side, at least a thousand strong.
Finally, the shields either side of Veridis locked into his.
He felt the urge to order the march, knew that the shield wall moving towards a larger
foe had always caused hesitation and sewn seeds of fear in the enemy,
but he was uncertain of the men about him.
Just getting into formation on the road and forming the shield wall is seemed to tax them.
He glanced at the warrior to his right.
A young man, his beard a straggly thing.
"Young, I know him. It is Balan."
"Here's only a few years younger than I. We used to spar together."
But Veridis felt older than his years, knew that his travels and experience in the
shield wall set him apart from most of those about him.
"I cannot expect too much from them yet. They only know this much because
an affair ordered that all men of Tenabral were drilled in the shield wall."
"It will have to do," Veridis thought.
Marching may be a step too far. We'll wait here for them.
We fill the road and block the path to the camp, so they'll have to cut us down and march through
us to get at Crowley's flank.
Looking at the men around him, Ernest brave men of Thousand Leagues from home,
he felt some of his anger drain, replaced with sympathy and a deep sense of responsibility for them.
"Ballan, listen to me," Veridis said to the warrior beside him.
The man returned his gaze and Veridis saw fear in his eyes.
"Follow my orders and we'll come through this."
The warrior nodded at him, then looked away.
Shouts and challenges grew louder as the enemy came closer.
"If they get past us, our kin and sword brothers die," Veridis yelled,
feeling the blood begin to surge through his veins fear and excitement merging into the exhilaration
that he always felt before battle. "Remember your olds and fight for your sword brother beside you."
He felt Balan stand straighter alongside him.
They were inexperienced, but to the war band of gundall that was approaching him,
the shield walls like nothing they had ever seen before.
Veridis saw the front ranks of the enemy slow, close enough now to see looks of confusion and worry
upon their faces. "Warriors are a superstitious bunch, always wary of the unknown."
"Sods," Veridis shouted, drawing the short blade at his hip.
"About and behind him, he heard the hiss of iron leaving leather.
"He began to thump his hilt upon the wooden boards of his shield. The rhythmic pounding
taken up first by those about him, then spreading, rippling through the deep wall of 200 men."
He saw its effects upon those approaching, warriors hesitating in their steps,
uncertainty spreading like a mist.
Then one warrior stepped from the crowd, a big man clad in mail, a helm of iron,
his sword raised high. He bellowed a wordless challenge and ran at Veridis' wall of shields.
A trickle of men followed him, warriors from the centre, then others,
warriors, woodsman and laborers from the flanks, all screaming blood and murder.
"Ready!" Veridis roared, spreading his feet and leaning forward into his shield.
A thread of fear clenched in his belly as he always did in this moment when battle was inevitable,
but not yet joined. Then men were crashing into his shield, blows raining upon it,
shuddering through his wrist and arm into his shoulder, numbing muscle and sinew.
And the fear was gone.
A face appeared above his shield rim, snarling at him.
"Now!" Veridis bellowed, stabbing his short sword through the thin gap between his shield and
balance, to either side warriors doing the same. He felt his blade bite into flesh,
drew it back red, stabbed again. The face above his shield rim disappeared, replaced by another,
he stabbed again, felt his blade turn on mail, drew it back and stabbed lower,
heard a scream, kept stabbing, not frantically as balance was doing beside him, but steady,
a rhythm to it. "Ease A!" Veridis barked about him, they're not going anywhere.
Balance shot to me glance, eyes wide and white, but his blade work became less frantic.
Men fell, blood sleucing down Veridis's blade, soaking his hand,
muscles burning, the unrelenting thought of blows against his shield, pushing his
straining body to its limits. Sinew screamed against the constant pressure as men piled
against the shield wall, some throwing themselves, others crushed by the oncoming mass behind them like
the sea against a tidal wall. Fingers grabbed at the rim of Veridis' shield, pulling it down,
and Veridis saw a woodsman, caught a glimpse of the road and forest behind him.
Veridis chopped another scream as fingers flew through the air.
The constant pressure was easing, still the thought of weapons as men hammered at the wall,
but the unrelenting press of bodies was gone.
The end is coming, Veridis recognized, when the initial rush of that first battle theory was spent,
and men looked about at the carnage reaped by the shield wall. He had seen it before.
New that the ground would be piled with the dead, warrior spirits crushed by the shield
walls, faceless brutality. We must strike now and break them.
Farwards! Veridis cried. He punched Ballon to his right to get his attention, yelled his command again
and took a step forwards. For a moment, he thought he was alone, stepping out of the wall into
certain death, but then Ballon followed him. A heart beat later the man on his either side doing
the same, and with a stutter the front row of the shield wall took one shambling step forwards.
Veridis stumbled on a body underfoot that managed to stay upright, even though the ground was
slipped with blood and snared with limbs. He felt the line sway, thought that the wall would
splinter, break and be scattered, but then it steadied. Veridis felt the strength and solidity return.
He set his feet and stabbed through the gap in the shield's felt his sword,
pierce flesh, heard more screams as others did the same. It's working.
Farwards! Veridis yelled again, and he did not wait this time to take another step. The
shield wall shuttered forwards, swords snaked out, more men falling, dying. March! Veridis shouted,
his voice hoarse and dry. Bagging his sword against his shield to set time, he felt the whole
shield wall move with him, some of the men behind him, funding their swords against shield in time
with him, the front row still stabbing as they marched. They were a ragged mass compared to the
disciplined ranks that Veridis was accustomed to leading, but still he grinned with the joy of it as
his enemy fell before him, felt as if they were unbeatable, unstoppable, and then the pressure
before them was gone. The sound of feet drumming on the road as men turned and ran before them.
Veridis called a halt. The wall stumbled to a ragged stop, and Veridis lowered his shield.
Body's lays strewn everywhere. Trees loomed before them. The camp ablaze behind.
Dim figures could be seen fleeing along the road, some escaping into the gloom of the forest
to either side of the road. Not enough to challenge us again. Relief flooded through him.
They are broken. With one.
They had all known that the greatest threat would come from the warriors and workers who were
away from the camp, spread along the road. They were the ones who would be alerted to the attack
would be able to gather their courage and attack, unlike all those within the camp who would be caught
by surprise. He looked and saw Banan grinning. The recognition of survival, the joy of victory,
saw the same expression spreading amongst those about him. Then, voices yelled a warning.
Death screens rang out. Veridis spun around, searching for the new danger. It came from behind.
Figures were emerging from the camp a solid mass of warriors appearing, dressed in black male,
curved swords in their hands. Caddish him. They were running up the embankment,
carving into the flank and rear of their edited shield wall, 20, 40, 60 of them,
more appearing from amongst the tents as well as a tight knot of others behind them.
Gondall and his honor guard. He cannot get away. Veridis began moving towards the Caddish him,
even as his mouth opened to shout for the wall to reform, he knew it would not defeat these
demons spawn. We have to take their heads and the wall will not help us do that.
He saw men crunching shields together, falling back on the strategy that had just served them so well,
but a handful of Caddish him leapt at the hastily formed wall, ripped it apart with savage fury,
swords rising and falling and deadly arcs. My men are dying, the Caddish him are slaughtering my men.
Veridis broke into a run and hurled himself at the Caddish him.
Chapter 16
J.O
J.O ran through the camp with every jarring step, every wheezing breath trying to somehow
lessen the pain of his broken ribs. Though that doesn't seem to be working. Blood was still
leaking into his eyes from a wound on his forehead and my keen sword cut to on his leg and forearm
burned as if he'd been branded. He took me by surprise, before I was ready.
He risked a look over his shoulder, relieved to see that there was no lunatic arm to the brim
with knives chasing after him. In fact, no one was in sight before or behind.
It felt as if he was alone in a world of white tents and narrow isles of smoke and fire
and distant screams. The last he'd seen a McKean had been rolling in the dirt with a dog.
He looked like a man with a serious grudge and I really could do without that right now.
Could be that dog has killed McKean. Much as he wanted to believe it, he wasn't convinced.
The ease with which McKean had shattered his ribs at shock jail.
How did he move so fast? It must have been a lucky blow, he's old and broken.
He heard screaming off to his left and so veered right, taking a new path through a band
and tents and quick fires. No more backly if I can help it.
Ahead of him, the trees of fawn loomed overlooking the fringes of the camp like a tribe of
dower ogres. Nearly out of his hellhole, even if McKean still breathes, he'll never find me now,
I just have to find my men. 300 swords waiting for me half a league along Gundles cursed road.
McClamour of battle drifted down to jail. He was travelling straight towards it. He didn't turn
away this time, though, as it was exactly where he needed to go. My men are out there somewhere,
and if I'm going to get out of fawn alive, I will need them about me.
So jail gritted his teeth and ran on.
He emerged from the tents into a scene of carnage. Warriors were masked upon the road.
More of the enemy in the black and silver of Tenabrow, but to jail's pleasant surprise,
the Jihad were loose amongst them. The road was a heaving mass of battle,
the path into the forest blocked for the moment, but the Jihad were doing all that they could
about that. Even as jail watched, he saw one of the Jihad lift a warrior into the air and
a hole of him down the embankment. He might be able to sneak through in the chaos, he thought,
and began to climb. Then he saw Gundle. The young king of Carnatine was standing upon the road,
separate from the battle, his sycophants huddled about him, though their numbers looked somewhat
thinned. About them were a dozen or so Jihad warriors, the rest of Gundles on a guard trying to carve
away through the wall of flesh and bone that barred the way to escape. From what jail could see,
they were doing a good job of it. Stick with Gundle or try and sneak past.
A warrior in black and silver flew through the air, a hand span from jail, struck the ground
and rolled bonelessly down the embankment, crashing into a tent and bringing it down around him.
Jail reached the road and tried to skirt the combat, which had broken down into a series of scattered
and brutal skirmishes. The enemy looked to be rallying against the Jihad,
one man leading a charge that sent two of those disturbing black mists jettling into the air.
Break, dameu. Jail muttered at the enemy, "Don't rally."
Jail, a voice called. And for a terrifying moment, jail thought it was Makin.
His head jerked around to see Gundle waving wildly to him from the midst of his protectors.
Over here, Gundle back into him. For a moment, jail considered his options and quickly concluded
that he was safer within a ring of Jihad warriors. He hobbled over to Gundle and Jihad stepping
out of the way to let him through. "I'm glad you're still alive," Gundle said. "300 men, you say.
Where are they?" For a moment, jail didn't understand what Gundle was talking about.
Then he realized he was referring to jail's men left waiting further along the road.
Not a complete idiot then. That way, jail pointed over the combat before them into the dark tunnel of the road.
"Good. The rassel is that way too, and a few hundred more swords around to me would be a good thing."
He looked back at his camp, at the flames and the black clouds of smoke at the dead scattered
all around. "Look what they've done," Gundle wailed, faced twisting in misery.
"They've destroyed my camp! Crashed my warband!"
Most hope they don't do it to you too, you whining little worm, and more importantly not to me.
"We need to move," jail muttered, not liking the feeling of standing still.
The knowledge that McKeemed was out there somewhere, hunting him,
hovered at the back of his mind like a black cloud.
"Yes, onwards," Gundle yelled.
A Jihad warrior turned its black eyes upon Gundle, then with a shrug began to lead their small
group along the road. The other Jihad, a dozen left with Gundle at best,
found out in a tight half-circle, pushing into the fringes of battle.
Then something crashed into their group from the left, sending men tumbling,
Jihad reeling, turning to face this new attack.
Jail staggered into one of Gundle's followers, shoving the man to the ground as he righted himself.
They'd been attacked by a knot of warriors in black and silver,
charged and rammed by them, all with shields raised and interlocked.
Even as he looked, short-sword darted out from the small wall of shields.
Two of Gundle's followers were caught in the attack and fell, pierced many times.
Gundle was shrieking, waving his sword around in effectually.
Jail saw blades sink into the flesh of a Jihad, that it shrugged off the blows and grabbed a
shield rim, dragging the warrior behind it forwards and chopping into his neck, sending him
crashing to the ground in a spray of blood.
The small shield wall fractured, men breaking away and attacking Gundle's part of the old way,
man to man. Not a wise choice against the Jihad.
Jail backed away, put a few of Gundle's followers between him and this new attack.
I'm scared of no man, but
He put a hand to his throbbing ribs, glanced down at the blood, crossing his thigh.
Another warrior came at the first Jihad, this man in a black and silver commander's quirass,
using sword and shield together to push the creature back a place,
sword darting out to stab at its thigh, shield boss punching into the Jihad's face.
There was something familiar about the warrior.
I know him. The Jihad staggered back a few steps, black blood dripping from its broken nose.
Its face twisted in a smile as it launched itself forwards, shoulder ramming into the warrior,
sending him stumbling backwards, tripping over a corpse and falling hard.
The Jihad stood over him, curved sword rising, then another figure was there, plunging a
spear into the Jihad's throat, a woman. She was dressed in travelling fur and leather,
richly made, dark hair pulled back tight. Then warriors were swarming either side of her,
chopping at the wounded Jihad as she wrenched her spear free.
The Jihad warrior went down in a hail of blows, his head hacked from its body,
that black mist spilling from its neck. A figure formed in the air, black winged and red-eyed,
hissing its fury, then it was gone. Only a few ragged wisps remaining.
I wished it stopped doing that.
Gandhul was screaming orders to attack, though nobody seemed to be paying much attention to him.
Most of his hangers on were running in different directions. J.L. saw one of the Jihad
grabbed Gandhul by the scruff of his neck and started dragging him through the crowd,
three or four Jihad carving away for him through the melee.
Gandhul spluttered a protest, but the Jihad just marched, resolutely on.
J.L. lurched into motion, saw them as his best way of getting out of this and stumbled close
behind them. The huddle of warriors crashed into them, mostly enemy all striking at a Jihad in their
midst. With a grimace, J.L. drew his sword and pulled a knife from his belt. Pain over death always
the better option. He hacked at a warrior's head, bursts of agony pulsing from his damaged ribs.
He dented the man's helm, then slashed at another with his knife, leaving a long red wound.
This warrior, lurching away, then they were past them. J.L. adding his blades to the Jihad as they
cut, huge, punched and stabbed their way through the battling mass.
After his left, J.L. saw the woman steal wielding her spear, a group of warriors typed about her.
He had seen her before, at the great council of Aquilus in Geraldine. He blinked, as recognition dawned.
Fidelity. Aquilus is wife or widow now. Nafaeh's mother.
What is she doing here? And fighting against Nafaeh's ally.
He grunted, as he ducked a sword blow aimed at his head, chopped at an ankle, then glanced
back to Fidelity. She'd make a good hostage. Either to buy me safe passage out of here or a good
trophy to present in a fair, something to win back some favour and prestige from the disastrous
mess these campaigners become. They were almost through the main press of battle now.
J.L. could see empty road beyond a few clumps of combat, the darkness of form beckoning,
promising safety. Battle cries snapped his attention back.
Beside him, one of the Jihar fell to its knee. It struggled to rise, but another warrior
lunged in close and his sword swing took the Jihar's head, black vapour spewed from the wound.
The Jihar that had been dragging Gandel let go of him to join the fray, sword rising and falling,
a warrior staggering away with a terrible gash from his forehead to his chin.
Gandel slipped and fell to the ground beside J.L. and grabbed at his boot.
"Help me!"
Gandel cried, trying to climb up J.L.'s leg and pull himself back to his feet.
J.L.'s sneered down at him, remembering how Gandel had mocked him back in his tent.
"I don't need you, or your horse is now."
He pulled his sword back and stabbed it into Gandel's screaming mouth, smashing teeth,
on into the soft tissue of his throat, jucked it out red,
left the king of carnit and bleeding out his life in the dirt of fawn.
Looking up again, he saw that the last few moments of frantic combat
had swung them close to the woman he was sure was fiddily.
At last, fate smiles upon me once more.
He swerved around a massive combat and strode straight towards her.
Chapter 17
Makin
Makin burst out from the rows of tents onto the embankment.
The tangled snare of form forest loomed close by.
At the top of the embankment, Gandel's new road carved a line into the trees.
Figures fought upon it, the clamour and stench of combat drifting down to Makin.
Where is he? Where's jail?
As he had run through the fractured camp, memory upon memory had flooded Makin's mind.
Over lifetime, a served as Castel's oath sworn shieldman, a friendship, loyalty and love,
and finally one memory overwhelming all of the others.
Of jail, plunging a sword into Castel's belly.
Those few heartbeats replayed in his mind time and time again until his whole world was a place of
heartbreak and rage.
Where is he?
He came this way, I know it.
Makin had lived in form with a gathering and learned the way of wood and forest.
Not that jail was hard to track.
He'd left a trail of his own blood for Makin to follow.
But where now?
Which way did he go?
Makin knelt in the grass, searching, fingertips running across the ground.
They came away, sticky.
Blood.
Another patch had paced up the embankment.
Something crossed Makin's face part's smile, part's smile,
and he bounded up the slope to the road.
Battle was mostly finished here, the dead littering the ground, others lying and waiting for
death's last touch, wounds gaping, screams and weeping,
ragged breaths, some men just sitting staring at blood-crossed palms.
Back all still raged further along the road, the trees of four on a tunnel about them.
Makin glimpsed kadashim in their coats of dark males scattered amongst the black and silver of
varied as his rear guard.
The figure moved beyond the combat, drawing his eye disappeared, re-appeared.
A man, dark-haired, just a glimpse, but Makin knew him.
jail. He ran, leaping the fallen, a shortsword, hissing from a scabbard across his back,
a knife gripped in his other hand, never taking his eyes from jail.
Behind him, Makin heard the drum of many feet, over it, a heavier thud,
knew that Alcyon and the others had arrived.
He ran on, skirting the combat, glimpsed veridists with a handful of men bring a kadashim to
bay, like a hound snapping at a bear or wolfin.
Makin gave it all barely a glance, because he was close to jail now, so close he could see his
eyes, the cut across his scalp.
He was heading diagonally across the combat through it, and Makin followed,
a wraith that wound his way through the tumult, ducking, bending, swaying, always moving.
Dimley behind him, he heard voices raised in battle cry, Alcyon's deep base rumbling over it,
like an avalanche as he joined the fray.
Makin hardly noticed. He was so close, a dozen paces behind jail, when he lost sight of him
for a moment, heard the harsh clang of iron at grunts, the thud of a body hitting the ground,
then a scream, higher pitched. A woman scream.
No. Dear Elion, no.
He knew that voice, would recognise it anywhere, fiddly.
He shouldered one of Ripper's warriors out of the way, and burst through the last knot of combat.
A warrior lay dead at his feet, others standing, pointing swords and spears at a figure further along
the road. Jail. He stood facing Makin, one arm around fiddily's throats,
resting his sword blade against the pulse in her neck, his other hand holding a knife tiked
to her ribs. Follow me? And she's dead. Jail said calmly.
He shuffled backwards, dragging fiddily with him. She saw Makin appear from the crowd, their eyes
touching. She did not appear scared if anything. She looked angry.
An emotion I know well. A warrior beside Makin took a step forwards and jail moved,
a line of blood trickled from the blade at fiddily's throat.
Makin grabbed a fist full of the warrior's shirt and held him still.
"That's better," Jail said, a smile twitching his lips.
"How Makin hated that smile. I'm going to walk away.
Have no fear. I'm not harmless lady. I know who she is, fiddily of Tenabral.
She will be safe with me, but she will stay with me. And if any of you should follow,
he prodded fiddily in the ribs with his knife, making her grimace.
She was still staring at Makin. Trust me, Makin mouthed and stepped out from the crowd.
The muscles in jail sawed arm tensed, then he recognized Makin and paused.
"Not you again," Jail sighed. "Don't you ever give up?"
Makin took a pace forwards. "Do you wish to be responsible for the death of fiddily,
Lady of Tenabral," Jail snapped, resuming his slow shuffle back down the road.
"Kill her," Makin growled, taking another step forwards focused on Jail's eyes.
"Stay back," Jail said, his voice rising in pitch. "Or she dies."
"Did you not hear me?" Makin said, taking another step. "Kill her. I care not.
Either way, this is where you die. Nothing will change that now."
He took another pace forwards and another, closing the cap between them.
Jail stumbled backwards, dragging fiddily with him.
"Are you mad?"
"She is the mother of Nithir. She is the first lady of Tenabral. Her war band is standing behind you.
harm her, and they will gut you."
Makin shrugged. "Once you're dead, they can do what they like to me."
"Stop!" Jail squeached, his knife hand pulling back.
Makin stopped. "I have an offer for you," he said, as he slowly bent his knees,
laid his sword and knife on the ground. "An offer?"
"I." Makin reached over his shoulder and drew his other sword,
laid that on the ground, too, and sheathed a knife from his belt,
another from a shoulder strap, one from the back of his boot, laying them all upon the ground.
"Let her go. I'll fight you, unarmed. Keep your sword and your knife."
He stood straight and raised his hands, started walking forwards again.
"You are insane!" Jail snorted, eyes glancing from the key into the pile of weapons on the ground.
"Maybe," Makin shrugged. "You murdered my wards, my friend."
Castell was as a son to me. "I will see you dead even if I have to do it with my bare hands."
He could see the indecision in jail's eyes. The man was tempted. That was clear, and why not?
He was a master with the sword, with any blade, and had both sword and knife in his hands against an unarmed man.
"You've more knives hidden away."
"No," Makin shook his head. "You're just afraid to fight me."
Jail snorted, but stopped his backward shuffling.
"You're afraid," Makin said louder.
"You," Jail, murderer, and usurper, are cowered as well.
A moment's pause. Jail's eyes narrowing. Then he was lifting his sword arms
a club fiddle air across the back of the head.
In that breath, she stamped on his foot and drove an elbow into his ribs, spinning around and
driving her knee into his groin. Jail staggered and rocked backwards, and then fiddle
was leaping away from him. "Bitch!" Jail snalled, moving after her, but clumsily.
In a heartbeat, Makin was standing in front of her. "Go," Makin breathed as he squeezed fiddly's hand.
"Dimally, he was aware of silence settling behind him."
"Go," he said firmer, and heard her footsteps pad a dozen or so paces away.
Jail paused, looking at Makin's empty hands.
"You really don't have any more weapons," he said.
Another smirk. "You actually are insane. I'm going to enjoy this."
"Don't need my own blade," Makin said. "I'll just take one of yours."
He strode forwards, swayed away from Jail's diagonally chopping sword,
pivoted past a stab of Jail's knife, stepped in close and punched Jail in the ribs,
making him cry out. Another punch to the sword cut on Jail's leg elicited a grunts of pain.
"For Castell," Makin said, close to Jail's ear, then he was spinning away.
Jail cursed, visibly mastered his pain, set his stance and came at Makin, carefully,
sword held high, knife low.
Makin stepped in to meet Jail,
part of his hand slapping the blade of Jail's sword away as he attempted a straight lunge,
grabbed Jail's knife wrist, and head butted the man full on the bridge of his nose.
Jail spluttered, blood gushing, Makin shoving him back.
"For Castell," Makin growled.
Jail spat, cuffed blood from his face, danced forward swinging his sword.
Makin ducked, air whistling over his head, he twisted felt a hot pain lant along his ribs,
heard shouting behind him, punched Jail on his injured leg again as he spun out of range,
heard another cry of pain. "For Castell," he breathed.
"Gail looked at a red line that his knife had scored through the leather of Makin's jerking.
"Blead, like the rest of us then."
Makin ignored him and darted forwards, weaved past a sword thrust,
kicked out at Jail's ankle, connecting, hand chopping at Jail's throats,
grabbing his knife hand and twisting.
Jail squelked in pain, his knife clattering to the road,
Makin kicking it away and darting out of range.
"For Castell," he said, as he spun away again.
"Stop saying that!"
Jail yelled at him, spickle flying, then ran at him more of a hobble.
Makin stooped to sweep up the fallen knife, twisting away from Jail's sword,
slashed once with the knife.
Jail cried out with pain as he stumbled on almost falling.
He regained his balance and backed away from Makin, limping as blood ran down the back of his leg.
Makin strode at him for the first time seeing fear in Jail's eyes.
"Do you remember?"
"In the tomb, beneath Haldis," Makin said, not breaking the stride.
"It was a fair fight," Jail said, pleading, shuffling away,
leaving a trail of blood from his wounded leg.
"He was your kin, and you betrayed him, you murdered him," Makin said.
Exploding into movement, leaping forwards, dancing to the side around Jail's sword,
a slice at Jail's arm, a yell, and the sword was falling.
They crashed into each other, limbs tangled, fell to the ground, rolled,
Jail finding new strength as he punched kicked and bit at Makin.
Makin grabbed one of Jail's arms, pinned it as they rolled together,
inched his knife blade up towards Jail's throats.
Jail's efforts redoubled.
His free fist, punching at Makin's head, his guts, anywhere, everywhere.
Makin grunted but did not let go.
Jail was grabbing at Makin's wrist and able to stop it moving remorselessly upwards.
They rolled to a halt, Makin squeezed, twisted, jailed, pinned arm cracked.
Jail screamed high and long as a stuck bore, the fight draining from him.
Then Makin's knife was at Jail's throat, tip pressing into the soft flesh at the base of the jaw.
"Please," Jail sobbed.
"For Castell," Makin whispered.
Then he shoved the blade up with all his strength.
Jail made a choking sound, gurgling on dark blood that welded from his mouth dribbled down his chin.
He struggled, but Makin pushed the blade deeper on into his skull, kept pushing until the knife's
hilt was tight to Jail's flesh.
Jail's eyes bulged, then he spasomed, legs kicking slowed, became still.
"Making wronged away," slowly stood and looked down upon Jail.
He grimaced, part snarled, felt suddenly weak and dropped to his knees, then sat and stared at Jail's corpse.
"You are avenged, Castell."
"You were like a son to me."
He felt his shoulders begin to shake, tears blur his vision,
and then a hand was striking his head, a warm body beside him pulling him into an embrace.
"He laid his head upon Fridale's breast and wept. He didn't know how long he remained like that,
but in time, the world opened up from that small pinpoint of grief, and he became aware of voices.
He looked up and saw the warband of Ripper gathered in a half-circle about him.
There it is, Krelis, Albin, Alcyon, and so many others, hundreds of them, all watching him.
"Well, that was a cracking fire and old and eyeing," Krelis said, nodding to my keen,
lifting a skin of mead to his lips and drinking deep. "What now?"
Fidale answered. "Now we march on Drasil."
CHAPTER 18
Coven stood in the great courtyard before the gates of Drasil, alongside her fellow prisoners.
Caledus walked down the staircase that led to the battlements where he had announced his
challenge to Corbin as he did each and every morning. "Save the lives of your people.
Stop their torture."
As always, Corven did not come, and now Caledus began the second half of each day's ritual,
choosing a prisoner to be impaled within the courtyard.
"Almost a moon had passed since Drasil had fallen so unimaginably quickly.
A moon of heartache and pain."
Although she was a prisoner, Coen had been allowed to take charge of the makeshift hospice
that she and Brenad spent so long stalking and preparing, choosing a few staff to help her
from amongst the more able-bodied prisoners. She was permitted to heal the captured,
only if she also looked after those of the fairs army who had been wounded in the battle.
"Much as Coen despised doing so, she knew it was the only way to help her own people."
Caledus stopped to dozen steps up from the courtyard and looked at the gathered prisoners.
"It seems that your bright star has better things to do than save your lives," he said.
"Voice laced with anger."
Coen shivered involuntarily at the thought of what was the calm of the screams.
"She was no stranger to death now.
But nothing could make her immune to the horror she witnessed each morning."
Coen.
"Come and save us."
With each passing day, it seemed more impossible.
For the first few days, she had been practically convinced that her brother would somehow
return with a war band and a win-back Drasil defeat their enemy.
But with each screen filled morning, that hope had withered.
Caledus gave a curtain nod, and a catish him stepped out from the shadows of the stable blocks,
moving amongst the prisoners, dragging one forwards.
As always, Coen's heart seemed to freeze, feeling as if it swelled to fill her chest
as a single catish him walked down the line that she was standing in.
"It was the figure that was always surrounded by billowing clouds of flies."
It paused before her.
One fist grabbing her chin and lifting it to stare into her eyes,
though there was nothing there, its eyes were black, soulless wells.
A lunatic grin twisted its mouth in a black tongue flicked out from its mouth,
thick and swollen, and slowly licked her cheek.
She reached from its foul breath, but the catish him held her immovable,
while flies crawled over her face up her nose.
"One day, soon!" it whispered in her ear, "I will crash your skull and suck the jelly from your eyes."
Then it released her, grabbing the man beside her, one of those who had been saved from the
Van Thalen all benches, and dragged him towards a stake. He began to plead, then wail.
It did not good. And soon his horrific screams were ringing out, a cacophony of torment.
There was no hiding from it.
The sound climbed, sweeping over the walls, and on, out over the plains surrounding the
fortress into the silent trees of form.
Have Corbin and the survivors fled? Or retreated?
Call it a strode down from the back of a step, and with an irritable wave of his hand,
signaled for the surviving prisoners to be taken away.
The warriors of Tenabral in black and silver, heard it co-in and the others out of the courtyard.
She wrinkled her nose as they passed the stables, the stench of Nefair's drag,
clawing up her nose. She had smelt a lot of bad things in her time, but nothing like
the smell of drag dung. She heard a horse nay as they moved past the stables.
SHIELD. When Drassel had fallen to Callidus and Nefair's warband, the stables had been full of
horses, great war horses at the Jihad Road, a whole herd that had been saved from the destruction
of Graham's hold. They were still there, and created another task that prisoners were used for,
stabled UT, tending to the horses. Every time that Corbin was picked, she had managed to get
close to SHIELD, Corbin's stallion. As they left the courtyard and entered a wide street,
shouts rang out from the wall, then a horn sounded.
The great bars across the gates were drawn back, and the gates opened with a juddering creek.
Figures filled the open gates, silhouettes with the sign behind them.
They became clearer as they spilt into the courtyard.
Vin Thalen, a score, two score, maybe more. Many of them were wounded.
So something is out there then. Hidden within the trees of form. Something with teeth of iron.
As she was marched away from the courtyard, Coen felt a seed of hope, glimmer, deep inside.
It was faints and fragile, and it wasn't helped much by what she saw around her on her way
back to the hospice. Caddishing were prowling the streets, moving like shadows, their heads,
twitching at every sound. All around her, she saw a host of Eagle Guard in her black and silver,
manning gates and walls, filling once abandoned buildings, working at forge and barn,
and the Vin Thalen were everywhere. Many of them were half drunk and fighting,
loitering on street corners, sitting in impromptu circles and throwing dice of bone.
The numbers of her enemies seemed vast, far more than Corbin's war band had ever been,
even a full strength. Could we ever have won? The dead from the battle had mostly been cleared
from the streets now, here and there a dark stain on a flagstone acting as a stark reminder.
As Coen turned a corner, she saw a dog sniffing in a heap to rubbish pile.
The dog was small and white, a ratter. I know that dog.
It was Halen's. What happened to him? She looked at the dog as she was marched past it,
it was skinny and half starved, ribs visible. Halen must be dead. He loved that dog,
pots, he called him. Just like my poor buddye. What happened to him? She had not seen him since
before the battle. Perhaps he'd been killed or maybe flared, though, deep in her heart she doubted
that. He was too loyal, would not have left me like that.
She drew level with the white dog and clicked her tongue,
reached inside a pocket in her cloak and pulled out a chunk of bread.
The dog lifted its head sniffing and after a moment's cautious indecision, darted over to her.
She dropped the piece of bread and caught it definitely, and it was gone.
She watched it scamper away, turn a corner and disappear. For a moment,
she thought she saw something waiting for it moving in the shadows.
Guards ushered her and the other prisoners into the hospice, less than 300 of them now because
of Caledas's morning ritual. The building was large enough to accommodate their numbers with
the lower floor made of two interlinking chambers. Part of it had been partitioned off for the
care of the injured. The rest turned into a makeshift prison for the others.
Only one guard came into the hospice, the rest sitting out in the courtyard.
Cohen heard the sound of dice on a throwboard.
Automatically, she went into the adjoining chamber and checked on the injured, not many of them
left now. There had been a lot more after the battle, but many had died. Cohen being unable
to do a little more for them than ease their passing across the bridge of swords.
Now only a score remained in here, although from what she'd just seen,
she expected that her skill would now be required for the injured of enthalin.
Frankly, she'd rather poison than heal them.
Do not give up, she told herself. Remembering her time as a prisoner with an affair in Caledas.
All had seemed hopeless then. That time, Corbin had come out of nowhere and rescued her.
Although ma'am died in the undertaking. I'll not let that happen again. People dying for my
saving. I'll not wait around to be rescued. I will make my own fortune. Whatever the cost.
Cohen opened her eyes. After counting 100 heartbeats and not hearing anything else but the usual
snoring, she turned her head to check on their enthalin guard. As expected, he was asleep.
Beyond the doors she heard the muted sound of conversation, the occasional burst of laughter,
the rest of their guards sitting in the courtyard drinking and gambling.
At first, their guards had been vigilant and rightly so because there had been a
smattering of Jihad amongst the captives and they did not take well to being made prisoners.
On the first night, two had attempted escape killing eight guards,
maiming three more and setting fire to another.
Eventually, they had both been subdued and executed in the courtyard the next day.
Since then, no more escapes had been attempted and over time the guards had become
correspondingly less vigilant. Cohen patted slowly from the room, making her way to a set of
stairs leading up to a balcony that looked down upon the main hall with a dozen rooms opening
off it. Almost silently, she passed into one of those rooms. There was one large window that
let in a wide beam of moonlight, shockingly bright in the darkness.
Cohen traced a familiar path to a cupboard, opened the door, shifted a loose board inside,
and lifted out a package. She shuffled over to the window, sat with her back to the wall,
facing the dark silhouette of the open doorway. She opened the old linen she'd wrapped round it
to reveal a book, leather bound and worn. She opened it towards the back and started
reading the spidery script, wood, eigen, low, hara, agada, a guarding spell.
Akachir Anteil, boiling water, worm root, flayed skin.
She paused there, a shiver goose bumping her flesh. What did I expect from a book of giant spells?
She pulled a face, fear, and revulsion. It depends either skin belonged to, I suppose,
if it came from Caledus or Nefair or Lycus, Moorcant or Rin,
the list grew in her mind of enemies she'd like to do terrible things to.
Bruno said, "It is a tool, not an evil of itself. It is how I use it. That's important."
She became aware of a sound, a soft snuffling from out of the window,
leaves rustled. Something in herbed beds. Slowly, as quietly as she could manage,
she peered up over the window's edge and looked out.
Something was moving through the herb garden, nose to the ground, moving steadily toward the
hospice. It paused, its white form reflecting moonlight, and looked up at Cohen.
It's the dog from earlier, Halen's ratter. The dog turned in a circle and jumped on the spot.
Cohen was scared they would start barking. Then, movement caught her eye, further back in a
shadowed recess on the far side of the herb garden, a solid patch in the darkness.
It wind, moved into the moonlight. Cohen's breath caught in her chest.
Good eye. Without thinking, she jumped from the window, dropping into the soft earth of her bed.
Before she had righted herself, Good Eye was bounding across the soft earth,
hurling himself against her rough tongue, licking her face, whining.
Shh. She whispered. Tears blurring her eyes as she kissed his muzzle.
He didn't listen to her sloppily licking her face.
Where have you been? She whispered, scratching him behind one floppy ear,
running her other hand along the thick muscle of his neck.
Been feeding alright by the look of you?
Something was tied around him. Cohen lifted it and inspected the long strip of leather.
A leash. Then another sound caught her attention, a rustling close by in her bed,
amongst the thick leaves of the basil and peppermint. She squinted,
narrowed her eyes, saw someone appear from between the greenery,
a face, small and pale, dirt stained. It was hailing.
Chapter 19.
Uphas.
Raven's and crows. Uphas muttered as he trudged through the marshland,
eyes looking skyward. He stumbled, his foot sinking with a splash into a
patch of soft ground. And he leaned on his spear to leave himself upright.
Salak, his shieldman, reached out to steadying hand from behind him.
Marshland is not a good place for a giant to walk.
What's that? Rin said. She was sitting in the stern of a large boat,
surrounded by a score of warriors as well as half a dozen rowers.
Uphas was picking apart alongside the banks of the waterways she was being rowed down,
a line of the Nothi giant spread out along the bank behind him.
Raven's uncrows. Uphas repeated, stopping and pointing up at the sky to where a black shape spiraled
higher above them. And what about them? Rin asked. She was in an unusually good mood this morning,
the first that Uphas had seen since she had learned of her war bands to feet in the marshes
and of the death of her huntsman, brave.
"I don't like them," Uphas grumbled, thinking of feck in the marons treacherous raven.
Rin stared up at the speck in the sky. "I've always rather light them," she said,
"and I suppose this one's a speck that will be providing its dinner."
Uphas scowled up at the bird. "I, as long as it's not her eyeballs and innards that it is
feasting upon." He looked around him. More boats filled the waterway, bursting with over a thousand
warriors. Not likely that will be losing this battle, he thought. Looking at the grim faces of men
in every boat, bristling with iron and the fifty Benothi warriors behind him.
More than enough to put down this little uprising.
But since they had left the tower at the marshland's edge,
a down mood had fallen across Uphas's shoulders like a heavy cloak and he could not shake it.
We should be getting on with the important business of finding Evanis and the necklace,
that is all that matters. Because when they found Namans necklace,
one of the seven treasures, then Uphas would be one huge step closer to achieving his dream.
King of the Giants. No more clans, no more divisions, just my kin behind me.
But first, I must find the necklace. Then it is to down and on Terrace to find the cup and then.
He's all brave for peer up ahead, moving smoothly across the ground. He's two hounds with him.
He ran across the marshland towards them, hardly glancing at where he was putting his feet.
Everything about the lads screamed vitality.
Uphas robbed at the small of his back and frowned. There is something about him,
Uphas mused, different. He hide something.
Rave comes with her set across the water to Rin. She held up a hand.
The rudderman of her boat guided them towards the bank, the rowers slowing.
All along their convoy, men did the same. The boats rippling to a halt like a long,
sinuous water snake. Is he alone? Rin asked, as Uphas took a hand and helped her step for the boat.
"I!"
Rave had been given a score of woodsman to help him scout out the ruins of done
crin, not that he seemed to need help. "Be careful," Uphas said. "I don't trust him."
"I don't trust anyone," Rin replied with a scathing look and fixed her eyes on Rave as he approached
him. His two hounds reached them first, prowling a circle around Uphas which he didn't like.
Rave sprang across a stream and pulled to a halt, dipping his head to Rin.
"Mike Queen?" he said. "Well?" Rin snapped.
"Don't crin as a head." A smile touched Rin's mouth.
"It is abandoned."
"Well, he wasn't lying," Uphas thought, as he stepped around a long branch willow and saw the
ancient fortress tearing out of the lake. He heard Salak mutter recurse behind him.
His shield murder not seen done crin before and it was a tragic sight,
the once-proud fortress laid low by time and circumstance.
Dark walls and towers reared from the lake's water, like these submerged boughs of a rotting tree,
read and slime hanging from the decaying battlements. A great work brought down.
When I am king, I will restore the glory of my kin."
Ahead of him, Rin histing frustration.
"There's no one here," Morcant said. "Your powers of observation are staggering," Rin said.
Barely contained rage dripping from each word.
A strange sound rang out overhead, making Uphas jump. He looked up and saw a scruffy looking
crow sitting in the branches of a willow. It was making a clacking sound almost like laughing.
Uphas gave it a dark look. Still making the odd noise, the crow winged into the air spiraled up
and flew away. Warriors were disembarking from boats to stand all along the lake shore.
Others had rode out to the waterlogged fortress, men climbing up onto the ancient battlements.
Uphas tugged on one of the worm teeth, set in his necklace as he stared at done grin,
eyes sweeping the lake shore, the willows and alders that lined it.
The signs of recent life all about, abandoned shelters, woven willow fences,
cold fire pits, fishing nets hanging.
A pile of burned clothing, old boots and belts, some twisted war gear, nothing of much use.
"The far shore," he said to Salak an eyes of aside him.
"They have young eyes than I." "Men could be hiding there."
"Can't see anything," Salak rumbled. "He was disappointed with us could tell.
His shieldmen have been looking forward to a fight."
"But it's far."
"No one there," Rafe said from a dozen strides away his back to them.
"He was standing staring at the far shore."
"Your eyes are good," Uphas asked.
"I can see a heron standing in the shade of that willow," Rafe said pointing.
Uphas squinted but could see nothing. Neither could Salak.
Then there was a distant splash and a heron rose from deep shadows flapping into the air.
Ryn barked orders and warriors began to sweep around both arms of the lake shore,
searching for hidden men wary of traps.
Word of the last campaign against his fortress was in everyone's mind.
"Live they left here," More can ask no one in particular.
"To avoid you, I would suspect," Ryn said.
More can't nod it at that, thinking it a perfectly reasonable answer.
"Well, we must chase them then," he said.
"A fine idea," Ryn muttered. "Or maybe not. What do you think, Rafe?"
The young huntsman frowned at that, was silent a while.
"I contract them for you, my lady," he eventually said. "But I don't think it would be wise
for your whole war-banting of chase."
We could be led straight into another trap like last time, or worse.
"Here we know the land, now, and your numbers would tell, out there,"
he gestured at the stinking marshland. "Who knows?"
"Calls were drifting over from the fortress, men signaling that the ruins were empty."
Other men started adding their voices from the lake shores they circled around.
"They are fled," Salak rumbled. "Yes," Ryn agreed sourly.
"But the question is not why, but where? Where are they?"
"Why we are stuck in the heart of Don Crane, where are they?"
"And what are they doing?"
"And where is Evanis?" With us thought. "He is the real prize."
"The only man with knowledge of when a man's necklace is, all else is smoke on the wind."
Voices shouted from further along the lake shore, a different tone and cadence.
Men appeared with someone definitely unworried like between them.
She was brought before Ryn, a woman of exceeding beauty, with us surmised beneath the starvation
grime that coated her. She was dark-haired with green eyes.
As she was held before Ryn, Uthessara host of emotions sweep this new woman's face,
pride, fear, hatred, hope. Ryn stared at her, then began to laugh.
CHAPTER 20
CAMLON
Torsious, CAMLON said, lifting his bow.
A flaming arrow leapt into the air, followed by 20 more,
all rising high into the blue sky, then arcing and falling towards the wooden tower and surrounding walls.
Again, CAMLON ordered, as the first volley slammed into the wooden palisade gates and buildings beyond.
Meg dipped her torch into an iron braisier, crackling with fire and ran along the line,
igniting the arrows of CAMLON and the twenty other archers.
They were standing on a shallow slope between the marshes and morquence tower.
He'd done his warband spread and a loose circle about it.
On a plane to CAMLON's right stood the remains of an abandoned camp.
Trampled grass, fire pits, torn tents, the stench of midden.
A lot of men filled that space, Ryn's not underestimating us this time,
though she'll be finding out soon that we're not playing by her rules.
CAMLON held his arrow tip in Meg's torch, the pitch and kindling catching with a hiss,
and then he was aiming high and loosing.
His arrow rising and falling amongst the others,
disappearing beyond the wall of morquence tower.
Already black smoke was billowing into the clear sky.
They'll see that for a fair few leagues around, Baird said behind him,
grinning as if he was in a mid-summer's fair.
He was stood to one side of Adana, Halion and Van close by,
as well as Lorken and his shieldman, Rogan.
"That's the idea," Adana said.
She was sterner. "Too long, Ryn has had this war her own way."
"Hi, this is a message as much as anything else.
Well, we'll not be dancing to Ryn's tune any longer."
CAMLON held out another arrow for Meg to light.
The gate tower was a crackling torch now,
morquence tower beyond catching bright flames licking one side.
Figures were running along the wall, bucket of water were being thrown,
but it seemed to be having little effect.
Two few of them, CAMLON thought.
Can't be mourned 30 men in there.
Ryn's taken everyone else into the marshes looking for us.
A broad smile cracked his face as he thought of Ryn's expression when she heard about this.
"That should do it," he said, slapping men on shoulders,
and the row of archers lowered their bows.
"Now what?" he'd done her asked.
"Now," we waited, CAMLON said.
"Shouldn't take long."
He was right. He didn't.
Soon enough, the palace said, handing closure were burning like a forest fire.
One desperate man leapt over the palace aid, apprehended immediately by a pandaatherin and his
men, followed shortly by others.
Soon after the gates creaked open, black clouds of smoke billowing out,
under huddle of men appeared, stumbling and coughing out onto the slope.
Some collapsed to the ground. Others stood with their arms raised in surrender as
Adanna's warriors closed in.
Pandaatherin heard the gathered prisoners down the slope.
Kamlin glanced at Adanna as she sighed and strode off towards the prisoners.
Kamlin and the others followed.
36 men were kneeling in the grass before Adanna.
They all wore the black and gold of Kamlin, Ryn's realm.
Adanna stood instead at them a long moment.
"How many of you are Ardenborn?" she asked.
Faces looked up at her, some nodding, others raising her hand.
28, Kamlin counted.
Narvan, Adanna asked, and thus stepped out from the warriors at her back.
Five raised their hands.
Drast narrowed his eyes instead at them.
Which three are from Kambran? Adanna asked.
Two raised their hands and Kamlin saw one other who was staring fixately at the grass of his knees.
"Bring them before me," Adanna said.
"And Halion, Baird, and Vaughn moved into the crowd, dragging the two who had raised their hands out of the group."
"That one," Kamlin said, pointing at the other one.
And he was dragged forwards too and thrown to the ground before Adanna.
"You are from Kambran," she said.
"You have come here to Arden with Ryn, invaded my country, killed my people."
There was a tremor of rage in her voice.
"You deserve death," Adanna said, "and I sentence you to execution."
Adanna approached the other prisoners.
"You others, you are Arden and Narvan born," she said.
"Men nodded eagerly," she frowned at them.
"And yet you wear the colors of Ryn, queen of Kambran, you have betrayed your country's served your enemy."
Kamlin saw fear ripple through them like wind through long grass.
"I will offer you my forgiveness."
Once, think more and one of them will need to change their riches.
"I will give you a choice, fight for me, for your countries, or go home."
Either way, you redeem yourselves.
She looked long and hard at their faces.
"If you go now, I shall not judge you, but if I see your faces again and your standing against me,
I'll see you die at death worthy of your betrayal. Make your choice," Adanna said.
And without waiting to see their reactions, she turned and strode away.
Only Kamlin saw the tears fill her eyes.
Kamlin sat with his back to a tree and watched more cats tower crumble in upon itself,
a great cloud of smoke and ash billowing up into the air.
He could see the bulk of Pendathrin as he led 50 men away to the east,
skirting the tree line of the woods.
Another group of men were waiting down there for dressed.
Going a separate ways for a while.
The plan was to split into three groups.
Then Dathrin, dressed, and Adanna, each leading a band of warriors,
the overall goal of each to make life an ardent, hard for Rin.
With a loud crash, the final section of more cats tower collapsed.
Kamlin grinned, wishing he could see more cats face when he marched out of the marshes to see it.
A pretty sight that tower calmed down, he commented as he leaned forwards into a skewer of
squirrel meat of the fire, tossing it to Meg.
She took the meat, blowing on her fingers and biting, grease dripping down her chin.
But after talking to her soon, he was surprised to find he felt sad about that.
Strange as it seems, she's not the worst company.
The drumbeats of hooves drew his eyes, and Kamlin watched a dozen riders
countering away in different directions, each with a large bag of silver taken from
more cats' chest, each one tasked with travelling through as many villages and holds as possible,
spreading the word of Adanna's victory at Dancrin that she was alive and well in
Arden and that she was fighting.
And of course, distributing a little silver to show that there was a bit of
profit to be had if you rode with Adanna.
We're moving forwards, closer to the end whether that be victory or death.
"We'll be leaving the marshes behind or soon," he said conversationally.
"I know that," Meg said, as if he was stupid.
"My'd be best for you if you and I made a trip to the next village along the marshes edge,
and I found a family to take you in."
Her head snapped round and she glided him, "No."
"This is your home, Meg," he said, with a jerk of his chin.
"The marshlands, these people, will be leaving here, going back to wooden forest."
"That's where my kind of fighting works best."
"We're going to war," he said, "and that's no place for you."
"You're eight summers old?"
"Walls here too," she said, looking at her feet.
"What do you call what happened to my village? My ma'am."
It was a tremor in our voice now.
He reached out and squeezed her hand.
She sucked in a deep breath, stuck her lip out.
"I thought about it already," she said. "Bad things happen everywhere. My village didn't
go marching off to war, but war still came and found them."
"You can leave me here, but who's to say, more can't?"
She paused at his name. Her sharp featured face twisting with hatred.
"Who's to say the same thing won't happen again?"
"War bands out there."
She waved angry at the marshes, staring at him defiantly.
"And you just leave me here and walk away."
"Well," didn't expect that.
"As for off the toes, but that's the most words you've put together since a metcher,"
Cameron said, blowing out a long breath.
"I like it here," she added.
Suddenly vulnerable, a child again, and besides, try and leave me here or anywhere.
I'll just give him the slip and follow you. Don't it before?
She grinned, mistuously.
Cameron sighed.
"Looks like you've thought it all through," she nodded.
"Well," seemed that settled then.
She gave him a long look, suspicious at first, which slowly changed to something resembling
pleased, and she went back to eating her squirrel.
He looked back to the tower, saw a black smudge swirl around the cloud of smoke,
and come flapping up the hill towards them.
"Is that crap?"
He felt a little jolt of relief and realized he'd been worried about the old crow.
The crows saw him and spiral down, starting cawing as it drew close,
and a lighted upon a branch over his head.
"Crap? Hungry?" it squawked.
BDI staring at the pile of skin, bone, and awful that had been a squirrel a short while ago.
"Help yourself," Cameron said with a wave of his hand.
"Don't think you usually asked," he added.
"When the crow had done, it hopped closer to Cameron."
"Well," Cameron asked, eager to hear the birds' news.
"It done, I!"
"Crap squawked."
"I, your lights," Cameron said, groaning at his stiff back as he stood.
Better off saying in news once, she's over there."
Cameron strode through white-spaced woodland towards Edana.
She had a few were about her now, just Halion, Vaughn, and Baird.
Nothing of her earlier emotion showed on her face.
She just looks tired, Cameron thought.
"Crap's back," Cameron announced, and the crow fluttered down onto the log Edana was sitting on.
"Your right?"
Cameron asked Edana, "My queen," he added, "after, earlier, the prisoners."
She passed her hand over her eyes and sighed.
"So much death," she said. "Who there ever be an end to it?"
"God, I believe there will be," Cameron shrugged.
"Called hope of being told."
He gave a lopsided grin.
"Long as he does an end with ours."
"Death, that is."
She smiled at that little snort of laughter.
"How many stayed?" he asked, referring to the prisoners.
"28," Halion said.
Cameron nodded.
"Shost them?"
"Not really," Edana admitted.
"But if I'm going to raise a war band more than half the men of art
and are probably wearing rins' colours right now,
I have to believe that it's against their will, that they'd rather fight for me."
"Think, that's most likely true enough."
"Always some rotten apples in the battle, though."
"I know," Edana said.
"But how do we root them out?"
"New recruits?"
"Put them at the front of the first battle and the second.
They'd implode themselves, risk dying for you."
"The Badans will most likely run first chance they get."
Baird grunted approvingly, and Edana nodded thoughtfully about.
"I'll do that," she said.
"Now, craft, what news have you for us?"
"Rin, had done grin!"
Craft said.
He paused and looked at them all.
"Very angry!"
Baird laughed at that.
"How many?"
Halleon asked.
"Lots?"
Craft muttered.
"Thousand?"
"Ten thousand?"
"And giants from Murias!"
Kamlin raised his eyebrows.
That explains the strange track to the meadow near Morgan's Tower.
"God war?"
Craft muttered, ruffling feathers with his beak.
"That again."
Vaughn tense the craft's words.
"It must be taken seriously," Vaughn said.
Vaughn had already spoken to Adana and Kamlin about this god war.
Told them about how he had stolen the giant's book from his father, Everness,
which had, in turn, been taken from him by Brenner during their flight to Darwin.
Kamlin and Adana had witnessed this.
But Vaughn also told them of a necklace hidden in Everness's Tower at Dunkarig.
An necklace with a black stone as a pendant.
"Ask craft what the seven treasures are," Vaughn had said.
"I don't need to ask craft," Adana had replied.
"I know the old tales as well as any."
"Cauldron and cup, spear, axe and dagger, talk and necklace."
"I."
"Necless," Vaughn had said.
"It makes sense."
"Dunkarig, fortress of the Minofe, Namarne their queen."
"So, what if you're right?"
Kamlin had asked.
"If one of the seven treasures is in Dunkarig,
then we must do something about it."
"Craft keeps squawking about the godwall, a prophecy about Corbyn and the bright star
and black sun, about the seven treasures."
"It all sounds right strange to me," Kamlin had said.
"I," Me too, Vaughn had agreed, but you're not understanding.
If craft is right, if this godwall is happening, then what is happening here in Ireland is just a
pebble in the ocean.
If this is true, then we must help."
"How would we help?"
he'd done her had asked.
"We must go and get the necklace and take it to Corbyn in Drassel."
He'd done her had just stared at Vaughn.
Kamlin hadn't been sure as she thought he was mad.
"I'll think on it," was all that she had said, and then left.
"I am taking seriously," he'd done a set of Vaughn.
"Then, what will be done about it?"
"The godwall, the necklace," Vaughn pressed.
"I am going to retake Arden," he'd done a set slowly, or die in the trying.
"If, by some stroke of good fortune, I am victorious and Rin is slain or sent back to Cameron,
then I will gladly tear Ebnes' tower down, stone by stone, until this necklace is found,
and I will personally take it to Corbyn in Drassel."
But until then, I must concentrate on what is in front of me, Arden and Rin first.
Rong!" Kraft said.
"I like that bird."
Bear chuckled. "He's got stones, speaks his mind."
"Well, a good counselor does, I suppose," Adanna said.
"But they also know when to stop and not labour a point," she added, with one eyebrow raised.
"I have listened, weighed the choices and I have made my decision, but," Vaughn began.
"No," Adanna said, her voice rising. "Enough, Vaughn."
"Von," scowled at her a long moment, jaw working as he struggled with the words itching
to get out of his mouth, and then he clamped his jaw shut, and nodded.
CHAPTER XXI
Halen stared at Cohen as moonlight silvered her face.
He was terrified being out as he had grown so accustomed to hiding,
but Budai had been uncontrollable after he got a sniff of pots, snapping his leash and heading
off into the darkness, and pots had run with him.
For one elongated moment, Halen had watched them go, then he'd been scrambling after them,
cursing them both the entire time, it had taken him to catch up with Budai and wrapped
the remains of the torn leash about his arm.
Budai had calmed for a while when they reached his courtyard.
Maybe the sounds of guardsmen and the crackling fire reminded him that death lurked around
every corner in this place. That wasn't till the figure had appeared at the window.
Budai had taken a few deep sniffs through his broad muzzle,
wind, and then he was off again. Halen standing no chance of even slowing him,
let alone stopping him.
Halen, what are you doing here?
Cohen whispered. Chasing the dogs, he whispered back,
eyes flitting between Cohen and the fire light flickering at the building's corner.
Cohen smiled, ruffling Budai's fur.
"I mean, how are you still alive? Where are you hiding? Are you alone? How do you have
Budai with you?" She took a breath clearly framing more questions.
"It's not safe here," Halen said. "Come with me."
He went to move away but Cohen gripped his wrist. "I'll tell you everything, I promise," he said.
He looked up, the open sky, moon, and stars feeling like it went on forever.
He shadowed.
Cohen stared at him and nodded. "Follow me," he whispered and ran.
They passed through wide streets, always keeping to the edges, to the shadows.
Soon they were entering a courtyard with an old oak at its centre,
his trunk wide and thick roots churning up the flagstone floor.
Halen headed to a deeper shadow in its midst.
And then he was scrambling into it, climbing into the hole that led to his den,
his sense of safety grew palpably with each step deeper into his underground hiding place.
"This way," Halen whispered, as they slithered down a slope about the length of a man
and reached the spot where you could turn left or right.
The familiar stench from the left drifted up to him but by now Halen hardly noticed.
Cohen clearly did, though, wrinkling her nose and inputting a hand over her mouth.
"That's disgusting," she whispered.
Halen grunted and turned right.
They shuffled along a dark, narrowing space, forced onto hands and knees as the tunnel they were
in followed a twisting root, then Halen heard a welcoming wine and saw a flicker of light.
He smiled. A space opened up before him wide enough for about
six men to stand abreast and about a dozen paces long.
Beyond that, the tunnel narrowed again, twisting off about the root it followed.
The small chamber was lit by a bowl of oil on a knot in the thick root,
flame dancing upon its surface.
Too fate is greeted him, swaying and sift, wolf, sun and daughter, and six bundles of fur,
boot eyes and storms cubs bouncing and leaping in their excitement at his return.
Seeing them like this, he realized how they'd grown.
They were only five or six moons old, but already they were all taller than pots,
their necks and broad chests thickening with muscle, like boot-eye.
They're not grow as big a storm but big enough and they'll be wide and strong, I don't doubt.
Calm down!" sift scolded the cubs as they bounced into her.
"She was on her hands and knees playing with her bag of stones and nuts,
rolling them into each other. Some of them sift for chalked white.
I still don't understand that game, but it's kept sift quiet for over a moon."
Boot-eye and pots burst into the chamber, making the cubs even more excited.
One of them froze, black-faced and brindle-coated, and stared at the darkness of the tunnel.
It growled, revealing a row of razor-sharp puppy teeth.
"Shado," Halen said, reaching out to hand to the cub, but she didn't stop growling.
The other cubs stopped their frolicking and stared too, cocking heads,
and then they were all growling as Cohen emerged from the darkness.
"Shado," the black-faced cub, took a snarling step forward,
legs bunching about to leap, the others moving tight about her all growling hackles up.
Halen felt a real moment of panic, snapping a command at them that was completely
ignored. Then Boot-eye was standing between the cubs and Cohen, bearing his teeth, daring them.
The cubs stopped, tails dropping, submitting.
"Shado" gave her last little growler protest, and then she too was quiet.
"Thank Alion."
"I thought they were going to attack me," Cohen said.
Looking relieved as she stroked Boot-eye's broad head.
Then she threw her head back and laughed, long and sounding slightly mad.
"I can't believe you're all here," Cohen said, sitting down and cuddling Boot-eye.
Potts put his four legs on Cohen's shoulder and licked one of her ears,
the cub was tentatively approached her, sniffing.
Cohen held her arms out and beckoned to Sif, who walked over and hesitantly allowed Cohen to hug her.
After about a count of ten, Sif was sitting in Cohen's lap, hugging her tightly in return.
"How was this happened?"
Cohen asked.
"The battle," Swain started.
"When it happened, we were here with the cubs."
"Because Corbyn had asked us to look after them," Sif said with a big serial size.
"He did, I remember," Cohen agreed.
"We didn't know what to do," Swain continued.
I was terrified, Halen thought, remembering the distant dinner battle, the screams,
and battle cries, flames smoke.
He'd been in the courtyard a bar playing tug with Shado.
She'd heard it first, stopping and staring, ears going flat to her head.
Boot-eye was here with the cubs, Swain continued.
But he ran off when the fighting started, and then all the cubs were off as well following him.
We chased them, and then a man appeared in front of us.
"He had rings in his beard," Sif said.
"I," Swain said.
Eyes distant, remembering.
He was going to kill us, tried to, but Boot-eye killed him.
Ripped his throat out," Sif added, matter of factly.
We picked up all the cubs between us and tricked Boot-eye into following us back here.
"How did you manage that?" Cohen asked.
"They were silent a few moments."
"I pinched one of the cubs, twisted her ear and made her cry," Halen said.
"He still felt guilty about that."
Boot-eye followed us back here, and then we tied him up.
"We were scared he'd get killed," Sif said.
"You were right to do it," Cohen said.
"Stroking Sif's hair."
Boot-eye would have been killed.
"I think you saved his life."
Sif smiled at nodding.
By now all six cubs were rubbing up against Cohen, sniffing, nibbling her clothing.
One was tugging at her hair, and she absolutely pushed it off.
And since then, Sway went on, we've just stayed hidden.
Every now and then, me or Halen sneak out for food and water,
Potsie's good at foraging for the cubs, he's always disappearing and coming back with something for them."
Sif screwed her face up at that, and Halen remembered some of the things Potsie returned with,
an arm once.
The cubs hadn't complained.
"What's happening?"
"Up there?"
Swayen asked Cohen.
"I'm a prisoner," Cohen said.
"I tend to the sick, wounded from the battle.
Most have recovered or died, but there are still a few to tend to."
"I meant Corbyn," Swayen said.
"And are?"
"Well, I think you escaped," Cohen said, and Swayen and Sif physically drooped with relief.
"To hear, what am I shielding and my friend?"
To hear had driven Halen mad, with his strict rules about where Halen could and couldn't go,
what he couldn't couldn't do, and his man's old sayings.
"I wish I could see him and hear one of those sayings now."
"To hear?"
He asked.
"You're a sheildman, I don't know," Cohen shrugged.
"There was a lot of confusion.
Many escaped," she said, hopefully, and there in foreign, still fighting.
"How do you know if you're a prisoner?"
Halen asked suspiciously. He wanted good news, but he didn't want to be lied to, treated
like a child.
"A patrol of Vinthalen came back this morning. I saw them.
They were more dead and wounded than the living amongst them."
"Huh," Swayen barked a laugh.
"My dars worked for sure," no doubt, Cohen said.
"So, what now?"
Halen asked. "You could stay with us," Sif said.
"I wish I could," Cohen replied, "but I can't."
"I tend to sick and cannot abandon them."
"The sides, if Caled has found me gone, he'd tear Drassel apart looking for me. He might find you."
"Why would he do that?"
Sif asked. "Because I am Corbin's kin, and he thinks Corbin will come for me.
I am bait and a trap."
"Will Corbin come?"
Halen, Swayen, and Sif asked together.
"I don't know," Cohen shook her head.
"He did the last time when I was Caledus' prisoner.
But if it's a trap," Halen said.
"Then Corbin cannot come. He is our hope."
Halen loved Corbin, admired him as the greatest warrior and leader the world had ever seen.
"Then you have to escape. Get out of here before Corbin comes for you."
A smile twitched Corbin's mouth, not light-hearted but serious and determined.
"My thoughts exactly," she said. "It's just a how that I'm struggling with.
And now that I know you're here,"
she smiled. "You'll have to come with me, as Caledus may find you in his search for me."
That thought both excited and scared Halen.
To be away from this danger, the daily fear of being discovered in court,
but being away from our den, which has kept us safe and hidden a whole moon.
"And, talking of being discovered, I should go back to the hospice as the sun will be rising."
Sif squeezed her harder and Cohen squeezed her in return.
"I cannot tell you how happy I am to know that you're alive in here," Coen said.
"And my boot I?"
She hugged the hound's neck, kissing him.
"I'll return soon," she said, then made her goodbyes,
ruffling the cubs' heads and hugging Sif again.
She gave boot I a stern order to stay and then backed into the darkness of the tunnel.
Boot I wind, but he did not follow her.
Halen did, though, and soon they were at the slope that led up to the courtyard.
Moonlight showed them the way.
"That's smell," Cohen said, wrinkling her nose of these stood in the darkness at the base of the
slope. She was staring into the darkness of the tunnel where the smell was drifting from.
"I recognize it," she said quietly, her expression changing.
She looked scared.
"Is that another tunnel?" she asked him.
"It is," he said, remembering the first time he'd found this place,
how he'd crawled that way first, eventually stopping and coming back.
It gets too narrow. Strangely, the cubs never went that way.
"Good," Coen said, her expression relaxing.
"Why?" "Because I know that smell, and I think there are dregs down there."
Chapter 22
Corbin
Corbin sat upon a giant bear, hands gripping the high palm of a saddle as it shambled along
a fresh-built road that cut like a spear through the trees and undergrowth of form.
Jail's road, which he built almost from the boundaries of Graham's hold to see him in his war band
to the walls of Jassel. The bear's pace was surprisingly fast, eating up the leagues at a relentless
pace throughout each day's travel. His legs were aching, the girth of a bear was unsuitable for
his human legs. "I miss shield," he thought. "Not for the first time."
The trees were thinning now, the terrain changing and more sunlight breaking through the canopy
above. There was less vine and thorn on the ground, more grass and wildflowers.
And then, Corbin saw the stumps of trees, a whole veil harvested of timber.
We are close to Graham's hold. With every league that he had travelled, every day that had passed,
he had felt his spirit sink. After Michael's revelation about the prophecy,
Corbin had been in the deepest depths of despair, but focusing on the hope of
being reunited with Coen and his friends had given him the strength to endure.
It had been something to live for, to fight for.
Now he knew that, with every breath that he drew, he was being taken further away from them,
if they still lived, and despondency had morphed into anger.
Hated faces appeared in his mind, Caledas, Nefair, Ealdair, Rin, Michael.
He had thought about escape, but the simple truth was that even if he could somehow break
his bonds and slip away from his giant captors, he would not have been able to walk half
the league because of his injuries. Even now, over a moon from when he'd been captured,
they were still not fully recovered. Soon, no, perhaps.